to be around 20-30 billion Turkish Lira per year, which is a relatively modest expense considering that every country spends more on military spending each year. b. In order to improve the quality of education, it needs to be modernized. This will require significant investment in infrastructure and the acquisition of new technologies. It also requires that the quality of teaching staff increases considerably. The training of teachers is essential for this aim to be achieved. c. Furthermore, there is a need for an improvement in school management and administrative procedures in order to increase efficiency and reduce bureaucracy. d. There is also a need for an expansion in educational opportunities such as vocational education and continuing education. e. Special attention needs to be given to the underprivileged youth who are currently lagging behind due to lack of access to quality education.

3. The unemployment rate among young people should not exceed 10%. This needs to be achieved by means of effective employment policies, including job creation initiatives and vocational training programs. a. An important contribution can be made by increasing the number of vocational schools which will allow more students to acquire skills in trade and industry areas. b. It is also necessary that young people gain relevant experience through work, internships or volunteering opportunities.

4. Young people should have access to healthcare services that are free from charge or at minimal cost. a. Turkey needs an effective primary healthcare system with easy access to medical care for all. This will require increasing the number of doctors and paramedics in public health facilities and investing in new technologies such as mobile clinics and telemedicine systems. b. The existing social insurance system should be modernized to allow young people to enjoy benefits from it more easily.

5. Young people have the right to participate actively in society through their participation in the democratic process, voluntary work, or community service activities. a. All types of organizations (public, private, non-governmental) must establish youth committees and youth councils which will enable them to express themselves effectively on youth-related issues. b. Turkey needs youth clubs and youth associations that can provide support and guidance for young people.

6. The government should take concrete measures to protect the human rights of all young people without any discrimination. a. All forms of discrimination such as sexism, racism, homophobia, religious extremism, ageism or ethnic prejudice must be eliminated in schools and workplaces. b. Turkey needs strict legislation against child abuse and violence that will make it easier for victims to receive help.

7. There should be effective measures taken to prevent young people from getting involved in crime and delinquency a. An important contribution can be made by increasing the number of recreational and sports facilities and promoting them actively, especially among poor youth. b. Community service activities such as volunteer work should be encouraged more widely.

8. Young people have the right to live free and healthy lives without any discrimination due to their age or gender. a. Turkey needs an effective national health program that aims at increasing life expectancy, reducing infant mortality, improving health indicators of women, children and youth b. An increase in funding for family planning should be implemented.

9. There is need for a more inclusive social security system c. The pension systems of Turkey need to be reformed by adding the 15-24 age group to the base. d. Everyone who has paid taxes during their working life needs to have a right to receive a basic income in retirement, irrespective of the source of that income.

10. There should be an improvement in housing conditions for all young people a. Turkey needs an effective public and private rental housing policy with low prices and long-term leasing b. The housing supply must be increased by making maximum use of land and improving building techniques c. All forms of discrimination, especially based on gender or ethnicity, are strictly forbidden.

11. Young people should have access to information and communication technologies (ICTs). a. Internet penetration rates should increase rapidly in all regions of the country b. The government needs to launch mobile networks and internet services with accessible prices.