


Copyright © 2008
by the United Nations Development Programme in Turkey
UN House, Birlik Mahallesi, 2. Cadde, No 11,
Çankaya, Ankara
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retriaval system 
or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without prior written permission. 
First published in March 2008
Printing:  Desen Ofset A.Ş. 
                 Birlik Mah., 7. Cadde, 67. Sokak, No:2  
                 Çankaya/Ankara
Cover:      Tasarımhane
Layout:    Tasarımhane
For a list of any errors or ommissions found subsequent to printing, please visit our web site at 
www.undp.org.tr or www.youthpost.org
  

TEAM FOR THE PREPARATION OF TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
Coordinator and Lead Author
Aygen Aytaç
Senior Consultant 
Sir Richard Jolly
Authors  	
Berivan Eliş, Dr. Kezban Çelik, Dr. Hakan Ercan, Dr. Ali Çarkoğlu 
Survey/Statistics Advisors
Mehmet Ali Çalışkan, Ulaş Tol, Emrah Göker 
Translator and Sub-editor
Canan Silay
Outreach and Communications 
Mehmet Arslan (Knowledge Fair Organizer)  
Şirin Soyöz (Web Site Editor) 
The National  Human Development Report is the product of a collective effort. The UN family 
in Turkey, specifically the Turkey Offices of UNDP, UNICEF, ILO, IOM, FAO, UNAIDS and UNHCR, 
provided detailed comments and advice throughout the research process. 


v
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
This Report is part of a series of UNDP’s 
Human 
Development 
Reports, 
national 
and international.  Human Development 
for a country means human progress for its 
people – enabling people to live long and 
healthy lives, based on living with substantial 
freedoms. It is thus defined as a process of 
broadening opportunities and strengthening 
human capabilities to enable people to make 
the choices they have reasons to value and to 
enjoy their basic human rights. Capabilities 
can vary in form and content, though they 
are also often closely interrelated. They 
include the enabling opportunities given by 
schooling, for example, or by the liberty and 
the economic means to move freely and to 
choose one’s abode. There are also important 
‘social’ freedoms, such as the capability to 
participate in the life of the community, to 
join in public discussion and to participate in 
political decision-making…1
The National  Human Development Report 
2008 on Youth in Turkey has used an 
unorthodox approach in its preparation. 
Young people in Turkey have been involved 
especially during the research. In addition, 
a comprehensive State of Youth Survey was 
carried out among more than 3,000 young 
individuals aged 15-24 in 12 different regions 
sampling the entire country and twenty eight 
focus groups were organized with youth and 
adults. 
Turkey’s young men and women are its next 
generation. They have skills and ambitions, 
vision and energy. But they need to be given 
opportunities to utilise these to the fullest. 
If this can be achieved, the county’s future 
will be assured and sustainable. As we reflect 
on how best this can be done, this Report 
analyses diverse aspects of the issue and 
suggests possible arenas for action. We are 
confident that the relevant assessments will 
contribute to the ongoing debate and wider 
discussions on youth policy, education, 
employment, and participation. It will also 
highlight youth’s needs and aspirations on the 
national development agenda, augment our 
ongoing activities and programmes, and help 
promote an enabling policy environment for 
more action. 
It is now the task and responsibility of policy 
makers -- and other adults in various positions 
throughout Turkey -- to listen to the voices of 
youth, to trust what they hear and to explore 
with young people how better to respond 
to the ideas presented. This can be a first 
step to empower the next generation with 
responsibilities and opportunities, and to 
remove some of the obstacles which hold 
them back.  
We extend our deep appreciation to all the 
contributors, from young people involved 
to the many state agencies and academics, 
for the extensive assistance and cooperation 
provided in the preparation of a truly National 
Human Development Report.    
                           
                                      
Mahmood Ayub
UN Resident Coordinator and 
UNDP Representative in Turkey
FOREWORD

vi
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008

vii
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
This Report was prepared by a core team led 
by Aygen Aytaç, and comprising Berivan Eliş, 
Dr. Kezban Çelik, Dr. Hakan Ercan of Middle 
East Technical University and Dr. Ali Çarkoğlu 
of Sabancı University, under the general 
guidance and supervision of Mahmood 
Ayub, UN Resident Coordinator and UNDP 
Representative in Turkey. 
Young people in Turkey have been actively 
involved in preparing and contributing at all 
stages of this report  as well as learning from 
the techniques of conducting focus groups 
and even organizing some themselves, with 
the guidance and supervision of Professor 
Esra Burcu of Hacettepe University. The 
evidence from the survey and from focus 
groups is used throughout the Report to 
explain the views and proposals of young 
people, often in the form of direct quotations. 
However, for confidentiality reasons, we have 
not used the real names of the young people 
we quoted in the Report. In drawing on this 
material we have relied on Dr. Kezban Çelik, 
who has used her outstanding professional 
skills and experience in sociology to select 
views and quotations in ways which are 
representative of all the material. 
Sir Richard Jolly, to whom the team is grateful 
without implication, advised the Report team 
on how to write a  Human Development 
Report throughout the process and helped 
the team to identify the main messages and 
recommendations of the Report. Professor 
İlhan Tekeli of the Middle East Technical 
University advised on the content throughout 
the process. Extensive and excellent advice 
was also received from Üner Kırdar, Yusuf 
Işık; and many others inside and outside the 
UNDP Turkey Office.
Members of Education Reform Initiative in 
Turkey revised the relevant chapters and 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
contributed to the Report with their ideas and 
recommendations.2 
Important additional contributions were also 
made by Dr. Ayşe Hoşgör and Dr. Mustafa Şen 
of Middle East Technical University, Professor 
Nazmi Bilir of Hacettepe University, Dr. Hilal 
Özcebe of Hacettepe University, Seyhan 
Aydınlıgil of Middle East Technical University, 
Dr. Nilay Çabuk of Ankara University, Dr. 
Hakan Acar of Hacettepe University, Turkey 
Offices of UNICEF, ILO, IOM, FAO, UNAIDS 
and UNHCR, and UNV Geneva Office. 
Yaşama Dair Foundation conducted the 
quantitative survey and contributed to the 
data appendix. Gökçe Pişkin, Cem Koray 
Olgun and several members of Youth for 
Habitat Association, such as Derya Altun 
Erdem, Ferhat Gök, Rukiye Parlas and Songül 
Kaya, gave extensive support during the 
organization of focus group meetings in var-
ious parts of the country. GSM-Youth Services 
Centre and British Council contributed to 
the establishment of an interactive web 
site 
(www.youthpost.org) 
dedicated 
to 
Human Development and youth issues. 
British Council, TUSİAD, Coca Cola, and UN 
Coordination Office in Turkey made financial 
contributions for the implementation of the 
project activities. Ankara World Trade Centre 
mobilized all its facilities for us, including the 
venue for the organization of the ‘Knowledge 
Fair’ where the results of this Report were 
shared with young people. 
The team undertook a wide range of 
consultations for this Report, which included 
regular meetings with youth NGOs, youth 
workers, government officials, private sector 
organizations, youth experts, parents and 
youth themselves through one to one 
interviews, meetings and focus groups. Many 
young people also sent their contributions to 

viii
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
the web site of the Report.  
The team was assisted by Berkan Toros, 
Gökçe Yörükoğlu, Murat Çitilgülü, Ayşegül 
Özgan, İlkay Okdemir, Yeşim Sözeri, Mustafa 
Birbilen, Fulya Özerkan, and dozens of 
volunteers including Seda Atabay, Ozan 
Çakmak, Nazlan Ertan, Ali Fuat Sütlü, 
Yasemin Kök, İlknur Erdem, Fatma Hasçalık, 
Özge Gören,  Melike Baykal, Burcu Şengül, 
Alper Şentürk, C. Emre Doğru, Nalan Koçak, 
Gökçe Erbatu, Gözde Özden, Gökşin Şahin, 
Huriye Sevgi Tokgöz, Hürrem Kara, Sinem 
Toprak,  Onur Şentürk, Hüseyin Aktürk and 
Elif Ünal Arslan. 
       
Nuri Duman of the State Planning Organiza-
tion, Çağrı Öner of the British Council, 
Mehmet Arslan, Şirin Soyöz and Öyküm 
Bağcı of  the GSM-Youth Services Centre, Sezai 
Hazır of the Youth for Habitat,  Perin Öztin 
and Akif  Yeşilkaya of Bilkent University, and 
Obahan Obaoğlu from Ankara World Trade 
Centre  were always ready to support different 
aspects of the project activities.  
Canan Silay translated the Report into Turkish 
and was one of the sub-editors.    
Tasarımhane Company designed the cover 
and page layouts of the Report. 
Özhan Önder and Alper Şen from Videa Film 
produced the TV documentary accompany-
ing the National  Human Development Re-
port. 
 
UNDP Turkey Office wishes to thank all 
contributors. 

ix
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
ACRONYMS 
AMATEM	
: Ankara Alcohol and Substance Addiction Treatment and Training Centre 
ATAUM	 	
: Ankara University European Communities Research Implementation Centre 
CEE/CIS	
: Central and Eastern Europe/Commonwealth of Independent States
EU	
	
: European Union
FACT	
	
: Family and Child Training Programme
FAO	
	
: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GDP	
	
: Gross Domestic Product
GSGM	 	
: General Directorate of Youth and Sports
ICT	
	
: Information and Communications Technology
ILO	
	
: International Labour Organization
IOM	
	
: International Organization for Migration
IPA (EU)		
: Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance
IPEC	
	
: International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour
İŞKUR	 	
: Turkish Employment Organization 
KOSGEB	
: Administration for Developing and Supporting Small and Medium-sized Industries 
KPSS	
	
: Public Service Personnel Selection Exam 
LFPR	
	
: Labour Force Participation Rate
MDGs	 	
: Millennium Development Goals
MoNE	 	
: Ministry of National Education 
NGOs	 	
: Non-governmental Organizations
OECD	 	
: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OKS	
	
: Secondary School Entrance Exam 
ÖSS	
	
: University Entrance and Placement Exam 
PISA	
	
: Programme for International Student Assessment 
QLI	
	
: Quality of Life Indicators
R&D	
	
: Research and Development
SHÇEK	 	
: Social Services and Child Protection Agency
SPO	
	
: State Planning Organization
STDs	
	
: Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TDHS	
	
: Turkey Demographic and Health Survey
TÜBİTAK	
: Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey 
TURKSTAT	
: Turkish Statistical Institute
UNAIDS	
: Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNDP	 	
: United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO	
: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFPA	 	
: United Nations Population Fund
UNHCR		
: United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF		
: United Nations Children’s Fund
YEN	
	
: Youth Employment Network 
YÖK	
	
: Council of Higher Education  


 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008

xi
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
 CONTENTS
Foreword
Acknowledgements
Acronyms
Overview and Recommendations
Chapter 1	
Youth Policy in Turkey
1.1	
Selected critical characteristics and issues
1.2	
Is youth policy sufficiently explicit?
1.3	
For a comprehensive youth policy
Chapter 2	
Education Opportunities for Youth
2.1	
Quantity issue: Numbers and percentages in education
2.2	
What about quality?
2.3	
For more and better education
Chapter 3	
“Young and Healthy”?
3.1	
Neither child nor adult, therefore “nonexistent”!
3.2	
What is worse than nonexistence? “Being a nonexistent young woman”
3.3	
Truth about sex and drugs or “the good old ways of learning” about them?
3.4	
Health care
3.5	
Quality of life indicators
3.6	
For a healthier generation of youth
Chapter 4	
Youth Unemployment
4.1	
Strong economic growth, weaker  Human Development
4.2	
Employment issues
4.3	
Education and participation in Turkey contrasted with the EU
4.4	
Employment and youth employment trends
4.5	
Youth unemployment duration highlights
4.6	
Education connection
4.7	
On rural youth
4.8	
Turkey needs a youth employment strategy
 
CONTENTS
v
vii
ix
1
11
13
16
21
25
27
33
36
41
43
44
46
48
49
49
53
55
60
61
63
66
68
71
72

xii
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
75
77
80
85
87
88
90
93
94
97
97
100
101
101
101
102
102
108
110
111
112
114
122
19
20
21
22
28
31
32
47
Chapter 5	
Participation
5.1	
Lack of participation hinders  Human Development
5.2	
Can civil society be an adequate channel for youth participation?
Chapter 6	
Vision for the Future
6.1	
Time for another leap in Turkey
6.2	
Young population will start decreasing after 2010
6.3	
Education is the first priority
6.4	
Employment is the most critical issue
6.5	
Development with a human face
Annexes
Annex One: 	
Turkey: Selected key statistics
Annex Two: 	
Turkish youth statistics
Annex Three:	
Methodology of the quantitative survey
	
	
	
The method
	
	
	
Quality check
	
	
	
Data entry and analysis
	
	
	
Sample
Annex Four:	
 Methodology of the qualitative survey
Annex Five:	
 25 Quality of Life Indicators
Annex Six:	
 Where is Turkey according to UNDP Human Development Indicators?
Annex Seven:	
 The position of youth in the labour market in OECD countries 
Endnotes
Bibliography
 
 BOXES
  	
1.1	
Youth in central government policy
1.2	
The General Directorate of Youth and Sports (GSGM)
1.3	
Youth NGOs and public sector synchronization project
1.4	
Some socially conservative restrictive attitudes especially
hinder young women
2.1	
Pre-school education in Turkey
2.2	
Efforts to improve school attendance
2.3	
Sector within sector: Private courses in Turkey
3.1	
My Family Programme

xiii
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
57
59
66
67
71
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
88
62
62
64
65
67
28
55
56
17
30
45
50
67
90
4.1	
“Young” and “Inexperienced” are used almost synonymously
4.2	
Conditions in the work place
4.3	
To find a job is difficult but to keep it is even more difficult
4.4	
Side effects of unemployment may differ for men and women
4.5	
Rural youth employment
5.1	
Different levels of participation
5.2	
Youth’s participation in family decisions
5.3      	 Youth not interested in getting into politics
5.4	
Youth volunteerism and UNV
5.5	
Voluntary activities in Turkey
5.6	
The distribution of National Agency projects according to cities
5.7	
Youth Councils are best practices in involving youth in their cities’ affairs
5.8	
Civic involvement projects for youth
6.1	
Millennium Development Goals
 TABLES
4.1a	
Non-institutional population by education and labour force status
	
(15+ years)
4.1b	
Non-institutional population by education and labour force status
	
(15-24 years)
4.2	
Summary: Labour force statistics of the civilian population by gender
4.3	
Summary: Labour force statistics of the young population of 15-24
	
years of age, by gender
4.4	
Unemployment duration for youth, by gender in Turkey, 2000-2001
 FIGURES
2.1	
The selected youth: Net schooling percentages at each level
4.1	
Labour force participation rates by education in Turkey
4.2	
Male-female urban unemployment rates by education
 SPECIAL CONTRIBUTIONS
What is  Human Development? Sir Richard Jolly
Gender inequality is a serious issue in education, UNICEF Turkey
Victims of honour killings: Do we think of them as “youth” at all? UNFPA Turkey
Risks youth face in labour life, Professor Nazmi Bilir
Child labour is decreasing in Turkey, ILO Turkey and UNICEF Turkey
The ten commandments for humanizing the digital age, Üner Kırdar

xiv
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008

1
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
Following the major economic crisis of 2001 
which caused great damage to its economy 
and shook its social fabric, Turkey has taken 
a set of well-articulated measures and 
achieved continuous high economic growth 
of the order of 7.5% on average  during the 
2002-2006 period. Despite some continuing 
vulnerability in a number of areas, its general 
economic performance has been quite strong 
including in the area of investment and 
productivity which increased the economy’s 
capacity. Its external economic links have 
also been expanded via much higher levels 
of exports and Foreign Direct Investment. 
On the other hand in the same period the 
unemployment rate has remained stubbornly 
at around 10%, and the rate of participation 
of the labour force declined including for wo-
men whose participaton rate is as low as 26%. 
Youth unemployment remains a very serious 
problem. Little substantial improvement was 
visible in the education system despite a 
number of quantitative increases. Vocational 
education which is crucial for youth showed 
little sign of progress. In Turkey’s membership 
and convergence process to the EU, the 
progress achieved in other areas has 
remained relatively weak in the social domain 
in general.
According to the  Human Development  app-
roach,  economic growth which is  necessary 
for progress and provides opportunities  for 
societal advance, satisfaction and happiness, 
is not sufficient  in itself for achieving these 
goals. Warranted progress is achieved when, 
in addition to economic growth,  members 
of  a society acquire and expand the ability 
to protect and develop freely their potential 
and gain access to opportunities in an equi-
table  way. Moreover, the  Human Develop-
ment approach does not only constitute a 
matter of choice, in fact the sustainability of 
economic growth itself is closely dependent 
on components which require the fullest 
possible development of  social capacities of 
all members of society.  This is all the more 
valid in an era when the knowledge economy 
is becoming the predominant pattern at the 
international and global level. For all these 
reasons Turkey’s further progress requires a 
broader based pattern of development with 
corresponding strong advances in the social 
sphere as well as in the framework of the 
Human Development approach. In fact today 
a separation between economic and social 
factors of development and progress is less 
and less valid even at the conceptual level. The 
advent of the knowledge economy renders 
the unbounded development perspective 
of human knowledge and cognitive capacity 
essential and thereby brings closer together 
in the functioning of the economy  factors 
usually termed as economic and social 
respectively. 
Youth -taken here as the 15-24 age group- 
constitute a vital and to a large extent 
determining part of the whole  Human 
Development based context of Turkey’s 
further development perspective. Apart from 
the intrinsic value of youth, each of its cohorts 
forms the subsequent segment of  capacities 
in terms of crucial factors such as labour, 
 OVERVIEW AND RECOMMENDATIONS
“We cannot always build the future of our youth, but we 
can build our youth for the future.”
Franklin D. Roosevelt


 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
skills, culture, values, education, knowledge, 
teaching, governance, management  and 
further capacity creation. Strengths as well 
as weaknesses in these areas have significant 
impacts on the following generations. Youth 
are the most vibrant section of society and 
constitute the prime driver of change. The 
corollary is also valid in the sense that progress 
can hardly continue if youth’s potential is 
curtailed.
Turkey started a strong process of modern-
isation under the guidance of Mustafa Kemal 
Atatürk at the foundation of the Republic 
in 1923.  In fact youth and their education 
and cultural development were attributed 
a significant place at the beginning of this 
process.  While the broad lines of  Turkey’s 
modernisation process continued and Turkey 
is now negotiating for membership to the 
EU, it is still faced with significant challenges, 
similar in some respects to those faced by 
some of the new entrants to the EU and, in 
other aspects, to those faced earlier by some 
Southern European EU countries. In this 
process the social dimension in general and 
the youth dimension in particular have been 
lagging behind. The relative position of youth 
and the scope and effectiveness of policy 
actions toward it have declined over time for 
various reasons.  
Some of the main reasons applicable to 
several previous decades in most cases can 
be summarised as follows. Overall progress in 
the social policy front has remained relatively 
weak. The education system in general 
and vocational education in particular 
have not been updated and improved 
adequately. Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT) expansion started with a 
delay in Turkey. Employment creation has 
remained weak, especially for modern high 
productivity and   high technology jobs, 
while in more recent years a mismatch has 
grown because of insufficient qualification. 
The gender discrimination curtailing the 
prospects of young women has not been 
tackled with sufficient strength at an early 
stage. The modernisation of agriculture has 
been delayed for a long time. The political 
and consequently social participation of 
youth have been negatively affected by 
interruptions in democracy up to the early 
1980s and this seems to have caused a long 
lasting weakening in the pattern of youth’s 
participation.  The hierarchical governance 
structures in a large part of institutions have 
remained quite rigid for too long. Government 
structures and policies relating to youth’s 
needs have not proved sufficiently effective 
so far despite efforts at the central and local 
government levels, the latter being on the 
rise however. On the other hand, the efforts 
made toward youth matters in past decades 
and the ongoing work in this area should 
not be neglected  in evaluating the subject. 
And there are also success stories like  those 
in some educational areas and institutions, 
local youth councils, some programmes 
of support to disadvantaged groups such 
as disabled youth, some areas of sport, 
exchange programmes with the EU, etc. But 
what matters most is youth’s capacity and the 
trend of evolution of its capacity in terms of 
Turkey’s potentials and  development goals. 
And in this respect, the gap is obvious. For 
both the shortcomings and successes, it is 
usually not only the government institutions 
that are responsible but also to varying 
degrees families, NGOs, teachers, the private 
sector and trade unions  as well. 
In summary, despite efforts to respond to 
youth’s needs in individual areas and sectors, 
the effects and scopes of policies  con-
cerning youth have not, in general, been 
proportionate to the corresponding needs 
occurring in the contemporary world. Hence 
Turkey seems to have foregone a large 
part of the opportunity offered so far by 
the demographic window of opportunity. 
However,  it still has strong potentials and 
more specifically, the window of opportunity 

3
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
will last until 2040. This situation offers 
Turkey a major and one-time opportunity 
to embark upon a set of policies which will 
enhance the knowledge economy related 
skills, competencies, learning ability, cultural 
endowment, knowledge management ability, 
cognitive capacities, creativity, employment 
prospects, availability of choices, motivation, 
health, participation potential, citizenship 
role, democratic values and self-confidence 
of youth. This will also have a very strong 
favourable impact on successive cohorts. It 
will contribute to strengthen Turkey’s overall 
development prospects and membership 
process to the EU by boosting progress along 
the relevant convergence dimensions as 
well as affecting positively Turkey’s role in its 
region. Once substantial improvements start 
they will strengthen prospects even after a 
relatively short period of time. 
What seems needed is an approach which
takes youth’s needs and prospects as a focal 
issue and adjusts,  reshapes,  creates and 
coordinates policies and institutions in a 
streamlined and coherent way toward this 
goal in different relevant areas from educa-
tion to employment, budget allocations, 
regional policy and social security. The 
highest quality level needs to be attained 
for and by youth  in most of the relevant 
areas in order to be able to benefit from 
the remaining part of the demographic 
window of opportunity. On the other hand, 
the institutional aspect of this approach 
needs to avoid creating strongly centralised 
bureaucratic structures which are generally 
particularly unsuitable for the realm of youth 
matters and discouraging for participation 
and autonomous behaviour. Policies toward 
youth need also to cover all  the critical 
stages and passages of a youth’s trajectory. 
This would include education, starting work, 
establishing oneself independently as single 
or by forming a family, asserting the rights 
of citizenship and emancipation and active 
participation throughout.  With regard to 
another dimen-sion, all social categories like 
the poor, vulnerable, disadvantaged have 
to be in-cluded. In fact youth is composed 
of catego-ries differing in varying degrees 
in terms of means and autonomy. And the 
geographical factor  too needs to be fully 
taken into   account to overcome the effects 
of regional disparity. There are also connected 
policy areas like the educational phases 
before and employment beyond youth which 
need to be looked at and are mentioned in 
this Report. The main focus of the Report, 
however, is on matters directly affecting the 
15-24 age group.
While there are also other problems which 
require 
simpler 
solutions, 
the 
general 
context of the corresponding approach, in 
accordance with Turkey’s overall orientation, 
needs to conform to  the knowledge 
economy prospects. The relevant recent 
world experience quite clearly confirms this. 
On the other hand, progress in line with 
the knowledge economy can hardly  be 
achieved if increasing the capacity of youth 
is not brought to the forefront. From the 
key role of cognitive and advanced research 
capacity to less hierarchical, much more rapid 
management and governance patterns and 
new participation structures, most of the 
peculiarities and distinguishing features of 
the knowledge economy are clearly closely 
associated with youth’s inherent qualities, 
abilities, predispositions and needs. This 
renders the full development of youth’s 
potential along these lines necessary for 
Turkey. In the same vein, Turkey’s  entire 
prospective 
development 
path 
toward 
2023 and beyond aiming at such targets as 
very high levels of competitiveness, higher 
employment, 
sustainability 
of 
growth, 
greater equity and gender equality  makes 
an   effective policy focus on youth all  the 
more pertinent. It also requires that the will 
of all sections of society be committed to the 
policy focus on youth.

4
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
This present Report is to a significant extent 
based on a comprehensive ‘State of Youth 
Survey’ carried out among 3,322 young 
individuals aged 15-24 in 12 different regions 
(Istanbul, Adana, Malatya, Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, 
Tekirdağ, Diyarbakır, Samsun, Trabzon, Kayseri 
and Erzurum) sampling the entire country. It 
also included 24 focus group meetings with 
young people and four focus groups with 
adults, as well as a broad scanning of youth 
literature among Turkish and international 
sources. Views and opinions of more than 200 
youth and 30 adults were collected during the 
focus group meetings. More than 20 young 
and adult persons were interviewed face-to-
face. All UN agencies, all youth organizations 
in Turkey, nearly 40 academics and experts, 
at least 35 public institutions and more than 
100 volunteer young people contributed to 
the Report with papers and research material, 
ideas and proposals. During March-July 2007, 
more than 150 meetings and interviews 
were held and more than 5,000 e-mails were 
reviewed for the preparation of this Report. 
The following policy recommendations draw 
on this extensive research: 
1. 	 Turkey needs a more articulate 
youth policy and youth-supportive 
institutions. 
Turkey needs to go beyond its present rather 
problem-based, sectoral approach to youth 
with a comprehensive youth policy and with 
institutions to ensure follow up action. In 
fact, basic figures relating to youth illustrate 
the nature of the challenges ahead in this 
domain in terms of sheer size as well as the 
characteristics involved.
According to the 2007 Population Census, 
there are more than 12 million young 
people between the ages of 15-24 in 
Turkey, corresponding to 17.6% of the total 
population.3  Youth obviously constitute a 
very strong potential for Turkey. However, 
the development of this potential remains 
insufficient. Within youth there are several 
categories with very different requirements 
in terms of policy.  Of the 12.4 million young 
people aged 15-24, 30% go to school, 30% 
work. While in part of educational institutions 
young people have access to high standard 
education and part of those employed work 
in quality jobs, a significantly larger part lack 
such opportunities. Moreover, almost 40% -5 
million young people- are ‘idle’: They neither 
work, nor go to school. In fact, there are mil-
lions of young people who are in the category 
of “invisible or less visible youth” in Turkey. 
These include:  women who are neither in 
education nor at work – about 2.2 million; 
the physically handicapped – some 650,000; 
young people who have given up all hope 
and stopped seeking jobs -300,000; juvenile 
delinquents – some 22,000; and street children 
and youth living on the streets, internally 
displaced, or victims of human trafficking and 
others who rarely get noticed or mentioned 
in survey studies or in the media. 
A youth policy for Turkey needs to comprise 
a strong human rights dimension for all the 
country’s young men and women and should 
be 
forward-looking, 
anticipating 
future 
needs and problems as they will emerge. As 
guidelines for the future, policy should also 
focus on the country’s  Human Development 
priorities – to strengthen the capabilities of 
youth to live lives of freedom and dignity, 
enlarging considerably their knowledge and 
choices. 
Such a youth policy needs to be designed 
in a participatory manner. Turkish youth 
throughout the country need to take part. All 
stakeholders such as youth NGOs, academics, 
private sector,  media and trade unions need 
to be included. A youth council encompassing 
all youth NGOs is needed to help drive the 
process. 
In the longer run, the creation of a youth 
parliament may provide a platform for 

5
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
young people to express themselves on 
issues and policies which affect them. This 
would also alleviate the concerns regarding 
the difficulties of becoming MPs for youth, 
although the election age has already been 
reduced to 25 from 30. 
At the same time, an institutional instrument 
with 
a 
flexible, 
non-centralised, 
non-
bureaucratic structure could help achieve 
greater coherence in policies and activities 
related to youth and provide a mechanism 
for regular monitoring. Young people should 
make up a high proportion of its total 
membership. 
Recent 
developments 
of 
information 
technologies raise new challenges and new 
opportunities for youth to express their views 
as well as to establish relations with young 
people in other parts of the world. Turkey’s 
youth policy needs to aim at enabling its 
young people to access digital technology 
more easily under the equality principle. 
This will allow them to come across the 
participatory/democratic society and citizen-
ship concept more extensively.
2.	 Improving the quality as well as the 
quantity of education is a priority 
for youth. It will bring benefits for 
the whole society and is a necessary 
condition for a sustainable bright 
future for Turkey.
a. Compulsory schooling needs to be raised 
to 11 or 12 years. This is first of all needed for 
bringing the quality and duration of average 
education in line with countries that Turkey is 
aiming to catch up with. Its cost is estimated 
at around US$ 25-30 billion over a 10-12 years 
period, a cost that should be considered well 
worth bearing, compared to its medium and 
long term strategic benefits. 
b. Equal education opportunities need 
to be improved. Expanding education to 
provide opportunities for all is a priority. The 
government can weaken the link between 
a young person’s socio-economic status 
and his/her educational attainment through 
effective education policies.  Some examples 
of such policies include the following:
•  Focusing on early childhood education and 
ensuring that children from different socio-
economic backgrounds have access to quality 
early childhood education. 
• Ensuring minimum quality standards in 
schools. Various financial incentives could 
serve this end.  If the Ministry of Education 
decentralizes some of its budget and provides 
each school with direct funds to ensure a 
certain level of minimum standards in each 
school, this would help both raise and level 
the quality of education across different 
schools. 
•   Enabling a more equal distribution of public 
investments in the education sector through 
the use of the e-investment system. Currently, 
the government is preparing to implement 
the e-investment system. 
• Providing equal opportunities to highly 
disadvantaged children and young people. 
Regular schools and teaching methods do 
not always adequately meet the needs of 
these disadvantaged children and young 
people.  More flexible, diverse and adaptable 
educational approaches have to be designed 
as part of a more comprehensive strategy for 
providing appropriate and quality education 
to all children and young people. 
• Tracking and student selection systems 
between different levels of education play 
an essential role in determining the extent 
to which an education system can present 
equal opportunities to young people from 
all backgrounds. Ongoing reform efforts to 
change the student selection processes and 
having multiple exams at the end of each year 

6
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
in secondary school and using the cumulative 
score from these exams as the placement 
criteria for tertiary education are positive 
signals highlighting the importance of the 
issue.  However, the new selection system 
needs to be followed by steps and improved 
teaching capacities which gradually but 
effectively break the dependence on private 
courses and dershanes.  The government 
could also devise systems based on positive 
discrimination for young people, especially 
young women, from low-income areas with 
limited education opportunities.  
•  Providing financial support for young peo-
ple who cannot make it to the university and 
thus giving them a second chance. This would 
enable those who are already out-of-school to 
work less in order to continue their education. 
In today’s world, the traditional understanding 
of exclusively in-school education is being 
replaced by new frameworks such as life-long 
learning, distance learning, e-learning and 
peer training. 
c.  Improving the education quality at all 
levels is an equal priority which would 
also contribute to the “equal opportunities 
for all” dimension, as stated above. Recent 
efforts of changing the curricula for a more 
child-centred and constructivist approach 
holds 
potential 
for 
enhancing 
young 
people’s capacity to participate effectively 
in an innovative economy and a democratic 
society. Obviously the pattern of the reforms’ 
implementation will be crucial in terms of 
their effectiveness. 
d.   More opportunities are needed for  
teachers in order to enhance their 
professional 
skills. 
In 
a 
package 
of 
recommendations addressing the Turkish 
Government, the education experts propose, 
in the framework of ‘Educational Reform 
Initiative’4,  that “In order to train teachers 
with the necessary tools and skills and to 
encourage them to prepare their students 
to become democratic and contemporary 
individuals who always defend human rights, 
that years 2008-2012 be announced as 
‘Teachers’ Years.”5 
e.  It is important to provide smooth 
transitions between the stages in a young 
person’s life, as well as in the passage 
between formal education and non-formal 
education, or from one academic subject 
or department to another, and always offer 
second chances. A new approach and a new 
set of values need to be adopted to rid the 
educational system of its predominantly 
pragmatist context, and present it as 
an experience to be also enjoyed and 
appreciated. Meanwhile, awareness should 
be created in the society that there can be 
worthwhile and estimable education outside 
of the universities too. 
f.         Both vocational schools and vocational 
school graduates need more support from 
the government, businesses and society 
at large. An effective orientation system 
should be adopted in the educational 
network, beginning with the interaction and 
cooperation between, on the one hand, the 
vocational and technical schools and on 
the other hand the industrial and services 
related businesses in the private sector. A 
new assessment system can be developed 
which can correctly evaluate the talents and 
eagerness of the young people in the fields 
they study. 
g.  New measures need to be taken 
concerning the functioning of universities. 
Although the number of higher education 
institutions is increasing significantly, and 
intentions to follow policies to improve the 
quality of university education are frequently 
expressed, currently the level of educational 
quality varies from one place to the other 
and from one university to another. There is 
a need to ensure adequate quality across the 
spectrum of existing universities and more 

7
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
particularly with respect to the new ones 
being created. 
h.     Additional resources are needed. In a 
country like Turkey where there are 12.4 
million young people who will be in the 
working age in a few years, both quantity 
and quality of education are big challenges. 
Additional resources are required even in 
order to maintain current school participation 
levels. 
i.          Certification of educational institutions 
at all levels of education in terms of 
international and EU standards would 
enhance the quality and effect of education. 
This target, already achieved by a number 
of educational institutions in Turkey, would 
both contribute to improving the curricula 
standards of Turkish institutions and provide 
greater skills and opportunities to graduates 
in Turkish and world labour markets.  
j.       Advanced and extensive ICT endow- 
ment is essential for an effective con-
temporary education. This needs to be 
complemented 
by 
the 
corresponding 
teaching required for productive use of the 
system. The ongoing efforts deployed in 
Turkey in this field need to be further 
extended, with advances in terms of 
technology and teaching and a capacity for 
constant upgrading. 
k.   Last but not least, reforms and changes 
at all stages of the education system need 
to be focused on, and provide endowment 
for the requirements of the knowledge 
economy. 
3.	 A special focus on young people’s 
health is also needed.
Health issues  of   youth are worsened by 
poverty, 
deficient 
life-skills 
education, 
traditional mores and a general reluctance of 
families to address the issues of identity and 
adjustment that children face during their 
physical and psychological development. 
These problems can also be exacerbated by 
substance abuse and violent conflicts within 
some homes or in the school environment. 
The necessity for investment in adolescent 
health — and the provision of life–skills 
based education in particular — needs to 
be explored more. The projects realized with 
the cooperation of the Ministry of Health, 
NGOs 
and 
international 
organizations 
should be diversified. The peer training that 
is implemented with success should be 
expanded. 
Discussing drug use and sexuality should not 
be regarded as a taboo, and informing and 
guiding youth in this context are essential. 
Indeed, the widespread hierarchic relations 
among family members are likely to cause 
issues like sexuality to be left in the dark. To 
break this taboo, education concerning sex 
needs to be given to youth in classrooms 
beyond the information already provided 
within the context of health and hygiene.   
Regarding the smoking issue, for example, 
programmes targeting children need to be 
increased and the number of non-smoking 
public places should be extended. 
The issue of social security for young people 
needs to be resolved. Stricter measures are 
needed to prevent young people working 
without or with insufficient social security. 
Relatedly, work accidents are too numerous 
and need to be reduced through effective 
preventive measures. 
Child labour should be eradicated. Children 
and young people are affected twice as 
much by job risks as adults. This also cons-
titutes a serious health matter.  Turkey, whose 


 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
legal framework relating to child labour is 
already strong, has made serious efforts 
which have brought noticeable improve-
ments in implementation in this field as 
confirmed by ILO/Turkey. However further 
such efforts are still needed until the com-
plete eradication of child labour. 
4. 	 Youth Employment needs to be
	
tackled as a focal issue and with an 
effective strategy .  
a. There is a pressing need for a well-
articulated 
employment 
strategy. This 
would also be in line with both the EU and 
UN’s Youth Employment Network contexts. 
Dealing with youth employment within the 
framework of a national action plan would 
constitute the most adequate approach. 
b. 
Identifying 
the 
specific 
features, 
constraints 
and 
opportunities, 
which 
matter most in terms of employment 
creation, will be crucial. Increasing urban 
youth unemployment rates in recent years 
have brought about political discussions and 
a sense of urgency to the problem of youth 
employment in general. For example, gender 
issues are paramount in the low labour-force 
participation rate of the country, and gender 
inequalities are perpetuated in access to 
education and other dimensions of economic, 
social, and political participation. This is a 
specific challenge that requires a specific 
response appropriate to the context.  
c.    Turkey definitely needs to increase its 
average level of educational / technical 
qualifications of young people. Otherwise, 
long-term productivity gains in all sectors 
will be constrained. Also the present high 
productivity pace will be curtailed. This is 
also why compulsory education needs to be 
increased to eleven or twelve years in both 
rural and urban areas as recommended above. 
Without such a measure, implementing active 
labour market policies that target the youth 
will be either not possible or very difficult. 
d. 
Identifying 
first 
the 
competitive 
advantages of the specific region, vocati-
onal training courses can be organized for 
the young people living in the economically 
underdeveloped areas, with the support 
and cooperation of local industrial zones 
and chambers of commerce and industry. 
In this context, alongside larger factories and 
companies, smaller businesses and workshops 
which can be set up with relatively small 
amounts of capital, engaging in the service 
sector, can be successfully encouraged. Within 
the same framework, micro-credits extended 
to young people could be increased. In 
collaboration with NGOs, trade associations 
and other organizations, consultancy services 
about 
entrepreneurship 
and 
business-
conduct methods can be made available to 
young people. 
e.    The quality of a job is as important an 
issue as being employed. It is important to 
have a paid and “decent” job for the young. 
This means having a job, which offers full 
social security, economic independence, 
and the opportunity to develop oneself. The 
idea that “any job is better than no job” is not 
unconditionally valid, especially in the eyes of 
and from the viewpoint of the young.
f.    New   and more specific employment 
policies, geared towards the needs of the 
young, need to be implemented in the 
fight against youth unemployment, their 
poor working conditions and low wages. 
Entrepreneurship  development of young 
people should be encouraged. Providing 
decent  living wages and secure employ-
ment conditions are essential in paving the 
way to the economic independence of young 
people.
5. Greater participation of youth in 
decision processes across the coun-

9
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
try would contribute significantly 
to  Human Development	.
Youth need to be involved in making 
decisions on matters which concern them. 
Families have a primary role, but so do local 
communities, NGOs, politicians and policy 
makers at local and national levels. NGOs 
and the private sector have major roles 
to play in finding new ways to involve youth 
in the democratic process and governance. 
There is a general need to listen more to the 
voices of young women and men.
While the youth’s distrust towards politics 
seems to be rather widespread, civil society 
can offer some adequate participation tools 
for the youth. Youth’s perception of politics 
too needs to change. Political participation is 
one of the most important means for youth 
to become responsible citizens. 
Increasing youth participation in social life is 
one of the important tools toward decreasing 
and eradicating exclusion and alienation that 
seems to have increased in Turkey in the last 
decades. 
As part of growing up, young people need 
to be given increasing responsibility, starting 
from young ages. Participation in decisions 
and increasing responsibility at every level 
starting from within the family is an important 
part of this effort. 
The state, municipalities, non-governmental 
organizations and the private sector need to 
continue to create social activity areas free 
of charge and to open various courses to 
poor youth who need these social activities 
the most. Ways should be found to better 
publicise these activities, courses and studies 
to youth.
In almost every area of policy and action, 
attention is needed to enable and ensure full 
participation of young women and girls.
Gender discrimination is a phenomenon 
affecting young women and girls severely. 
Ensuring gender equality is a long process 
that requires full and sustained commitment 
at the highest levels, backed up by a parallel 
allocation of resources. In this vein, education 
is a priority for young women to develop 
awareness and to make informed choices 
to live a life of quality and fulfilment.   Sus-
tainable development can only be guaran-
teed by ensuring equal opportunities for 
women. 
The 2.2 million young women who are 
neither in education nor at work should not 
be forgotten when formulating policies. 
Providing them visibility and increasing their 
independence will bring development to the 
country. Not only equal opportunities but 
also alternative options should be presented 
to these young women.
More effective public awareness campaigns 
need to be organized for combating violence 
against women and to prevent early marriages 
and honour killings. 
6.    Selected policy directions relating to 
youth on Turkey’s path to 2023.
Turkey aims to reach a significantly higher 
level of income and a distinctly more 
advanced degree of development by 2023 
which coincides with the centenary of the 
Turkish Republic. As pointed out above, this 
prospect definitely exists. To materialise this in 
a sustainable manner would require a broad 
based, knowledge economy and  Human 
Development based process combating 
poverty vigorously by also emphasising 
equality in terms of access to opportunities -- 
and ensuring the acquisition by the young of 
high skills allowing productive employment 
so that the demographic window of 
opportunity can be utilized effectively. 
Apart from the related education and labour 
components of this process partly dealt 

10
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
with above, it is worth emphasising that a 
strategy of transformation to the knowledge 
economy is indispensable. This strategy 
which would need and at the same time 
open up prospects for enormous numbers 
of highly skilled youth would require a heavy 
shift in favour of science and technology 
focused production with special emphasis 
on basic sciences; much increased levels of 
private sector R&D and more advanced state-
industry-university collaboration, including 
new research competencies at universities 
and very advanced and continuously up-
dated ICT infrastructures. In the ICT sector, 
the creation of large numbers of companies 
by young people needs to be encouraged 
and supported.
For the knowledge economy path to become 
predominant with the increasing and most 
active participation of youth, the following 
would also be needed: more flexible and 
efficient governance structures; a significant 
improvement in the abolition of unrecorded 
economic activities; a more rules-based 
competition environment and an enhanced 
capacity to plan so that future cohorts of 
youth can continue the upward path in such 
a way that Turkey will be better prepared for 
the even more challenging next two decades 
following 2023. 
 

Chapter 1
YOUTH POLICY IN TURKEY

“ Human Development allows for space in which a person 
has the ability to do (be) certain things that s/he values.”6
 
Amartya Sen 

13
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
1
invisible group. As the term “young” is 
mostly associated with “boys,” young women 
are usually not a focal point of youth studies. 
A group described as “ev kızı” (house girls) and 
composed of young women who stay at 
home and remain isolated from social 
activities, 
the 
labour 
market 
and 
education are, as a result, excluded from 
much of social life. Some of these women 
choose this way of life, and they have right 
to do so;  but many are forced into it either 
before  they become conscious of  alternatives 
or when they migrate to big cities without the 
skills required by the urban labour market.  
National, regional and state policies need 
to focus more on these invisible youth, 
particularly young women, and explore ways 
to increase their opportunities and to help 
them gain access to education and resources 
necessary for their full development and full 
participation in social and economic life. In 
many respects, their needs are greater and 
different from those of the 8 million more 
visible young people. Yet there is no “magic 
potion” that can bring one solution to these 
categories of invisible young people. Their 
diversity needs to be better recognized and 
policies and action adapted to their reality 
and needs.   
1.1.2. Young people are important agents 
of change -but this is only partially 
recognized in Turkey and opportunities for 
their participation are often limited and 
constrained.
The young people in Turkey, when they are 
given opportunities and more options, can 
make powerful contributions to their families 
and communities and to social change more 
1.1.1. There are many categories of youth in 
Turkey today, not one. However, this 
diversity is insufficiently recognised in 
government policy and media presenta-
tions. At least three million young men and 
women can be counted as “invisible”.
Media representation of youth draws heavily 
on the image of young people as students 
-- single, healthy, dynamic and usually 
middle-class. In fact, students constitute 
only one-third of the age group 15-24. There 
are as many young people employed as 
unemployed. Among both the employed and 
unemployed, some live with their families, 
some are married with children, some work 
within the informal sector, some are busy 
looking for jobs and some have already lost 
hope of finding one. 
There are millions of young people who are 
in the category of “invisible youth” in Turkey. 
These include: 
•	
women who are neither in education 
nor at work – about 2.2 million;7
•	
the physically handicapped – some 
650,000;8
•	
young people who have given up 
all hope and stopped seeking jobs -
300,000;9
•	
juvenile delinquents – some 22,000;10 
and
•	
street children and youth living on 
the streets,  internally displaced, or 
victims of human trafficking and 
others who rarely get noticed or 
mentioned in survey studies or in the 
media. 
Young women form a majority of this 
CHAPTER 1	 YOUTH POLICY IN TURKEY
1.1.  Selected critical characteristics and issues 

14
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
1
broadly with their vision and energy. Many 
examples in Turkey’s history show this. 
• Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the national hero 
and founding father of the modern Turkish 
Republic, 
mobilized 
young 
cadres 
to 
disseminate his ideas throughout the new 
Republic. “The sacred gift I entrust to the 
Turkish youth is the Republic”, he said in his 
speech to the Turkish youth. Atatürk dedicated 
May 19 to Turkish youth, a visible sign of the 
great leader’s strong faith in young people. 
•  Village institutes, which functioned between 
1940 and 1953, provide another example. 
These were schools that educated young 
people, especially rural youth and gave 
them a creative, emancipatory, and modern 
understanding of development. The energy 
and innovative power of young people was 
mobilized. Youth went to the villages to 
teach villagers to read, write, drive, farm, build 
schools, and treat malaria.
• In 1960s as well, young people were 
perceived as trustworthy and promising 
pioneers of society. The 1961 Constitution 
recognized a positive role for young people 
and several student societies became active 
in rural areas and urban community work.
This potential is also present today and the 
fact that a large part of youth vote for 
conservative political parties in no way 
precludes their dynamic attitudes towards 
social change.
In 
spite 
of 
these 
positive 
examples 
mentioned above, the right-left conflicts of 
the 1970s had polarized young people into 
two camps. The political chaos culminated 
in the military coup of 1980. The image of 
youth was changed. Young people were 
no longer seen as pioneers or forerunners 
but rather as contentious and dangerous. 
The Constitution of 1982 that followed the 
1980 coup erected new barriers for youth. 
Many regulations blocking young people’s 
participation in politics were introduced, 
including regulations at municipal level and 
closing down of youth institutions. Although 
some amendments and reforms have been 
made - decreasing the voting-age from 21 
to 18 in 1995, for example - opportunities for 
young people to participate in political and 
social life were limited. Now, political parties 
have relatively weak grassroots organizations, 
and the representation of young generations, 
especially young women, is very weak.11 
Following the massive 1999 earthquake, 
when 20,000 people died, Turkey witnessed 
the mobilization of hundreds of thousands 
of volunteers, mostly young people. Young 
men and women again demonstrated their 
motivation and ability to work effectively and 
take initiatives for the whole society and help 
overcome the crisis. 
In other ways, opportunities for young people 
to fully realize their potential are still too few 
in Turkey. While many young people are 
increasingly involved in NGO work and social 
responsibility projects, often such activities 
can be met with doubts and suspicions. The 
high rates of youth unemployment –nearly 
19% - and the low rates of youth participation 
in the labour force – under 35% - speak to 
the limited opportunities for youth in Turkey. 
Long years of education do not guarantee a 
high quality job in urban Turkey at this stage 
of Turkey’s demographic and labour market 
transition. These transitional pressures will 
only ease after the next couple of decades.  
1.1.3. Although family solidarity and 
support in Turkey are high, it should not 
be taken for granted.  Many young people 
find themselves in a vulnerable situation, 
especially those in poorer families with 
large numbers of siblings, in rural areas or 
when they are recent migrants in a big city. 
Welfare provisions have important gaps 
which leave young people vulnerable.

15
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
1
Poverty, unemployment and migration to 
a big city without the skills needed in the 
urban labour market limit a young person’s 
chances to get established in life – let alone to 
advance. Low family income means exclusion 
from social and economic life for many young 
people as well as limited opportunities 
for raising their living standards and social 
mobility. 
The young people aged 15-24 in Turkey 
face many problems where support is 
needed: seeking further education, finding 
a job, starting work and a career, building an 
independent identity, finding a place to live 
and perhaps establishing a family. Many are 
starting their first sexual experiences with 
risks to their health. All these create needs for 
support from community and the state, yet 
existing services have important gaps. 
Key areas where such support is missing:
• Coverage of primary and secondary 
education is still not 100% - and dropout rates 
are still high, especially among women and 
often for economic reasons.  
• Pre-school education reaches only about 
20% of the pre-school population. 
• More than half of the young population 
is not aware of the scholarship and loan 
opportunities provided by the state (accord-
ing to the State of Youth Survey).
• Unemployed young men aged above 18 
years can often be without or with only 
limited access to health insurance.  
• First time job seekers have no access to 
unemployment benefits.  
Such gaps in the welfare state reflect Turkey’s 
lack of a comprehensive youth policy. In 
establishing such a policy, review of the 
adequacy of health and education provisions 
for young people would be a first priority. 
1.1.4. Girls and young women experience 
multiple exclusions and discriminations, 
within families, communities and such 
“modern” public places as internet cafes. 
Not merely women but the whole of Turkish 
society lose from this. 
Gender disparities aggravate most social 
issues in Turkey. Traditional preferences for 
men and boys over women and girls are 
visible in every area of life. Unpredictable 
temper of adolescence is accepted for young 
males thanks to the representation of delikanlı 
or “crazy blood”. However, girls of similar age 
are not treated with the same understanding. 
Such double standards are common in 
societies the world over, but these biases for 
men and boys over women and girls are often 
more extreme in Turkey and have serious 
consequences for the whole Turkish society.  
Chances of girls getting education are still 
lower than boys. Although school enrolment 
rates for girls have increased and gender 
gaps in enrolment and attendance in primary 
education have closed by 15% in recent years, 
there were gender gaps of 4% in primary 
education and 8% in secondary education in 
the 2006-2007 education year.12
Adolescent girls drop out or are withdrawn 
from school by their families for various 
reasons. Young women are nearly nine times 
more likely to drop out of school because of 
family pressure than young men according to 
the State of Youth Survey.  The problem is 
more accentuated between the sixth and 
eighth grades, when large numbers of 
adolescent girls become committed to 
marriage, to work or to both. Only 25% of 
the female population over 15 years of age 
is accounted for in labour force participation 
rates. 

16
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
1
The discrimination faced by young women 
is best symbolized in their access to modern 
age public places such as internet cafes. 
Young women, especially those living in rural 
areas and small towns, are often not able to 
benefit from the internet cafes that have been 
springing up all over the country. Many are 
afraid of being accused of  “chatting with men 
on the internet” or using the centres simply to 
meet young men.13  
Political participation of young women is 
also very low in Turkey. Even though female 
Turkish citizens gained the right to vote and 
to be elected in 1935 - years before many 
other European countries - the number of 
women in parliament is still very low. There 
are currently only 50 women among the 550 
deputies in the parliament – and even this 
number is double the number before the 
elections of July 2007. 
Young women need rights not just on paper 
but in actual implementation. Not only in 
politics but in every area of policy and action, 
young women need equal opportunities for 
participation. Sustainable  Human Develop-
ment  for  the whole country will never be 
achieved if half the population is excluded 
from full and effective participation. 
The surveys, the focus groups and direct 
interaction with young people, which 
provided  useful material for this Report,  give
a message of hope based also on a strong 
sense of awareness.  Men and  women in 
Turkey today have the vision, the energy 
and the ambition to contribute to the 
country as well as to their own advancement. 
However, they need both opportunities  and 
more support to strengthen their skills and 
capabilities. This is the Human Development 
challenge ahead. 
It is not only a challenge for the government 
– although the government at all levels needs 
to do more. It is also a challenge for NGOs and 
the private sector, for local communities and 
for families themselves. The future of Turkey 
lies in ensuring that all its young people – the 
next generation of leaders and managers, 
of workers and businesswomen, of parents 
and community leaders – are given the 
opportunities, the education and training to 
dream and realize their vision and ambitions. 
On any given day, 12 million young people 
between the ages of 15-24 in Turkey14 have 
to deal with at least some of the challenges of 
transition to adulthood such as finding a job, 
graduating from or leaving school, building 
an identity, leaving the parents’ home or 
establishing a family. Of these 12 million, 
30% go to school, 30% work. Almost 40% 
--5 million young people-- are ‘idle.’ They 
neither work, nor go to school. 
While the percentage of the  ‘idle’  youth 
seems to be the trickiest one from the   Human 
Development point of view in Turkey’s context, 
all of these figures for the other categories 
should also be evaluated carefully. It is hard to 
say that all of the 3.8 million students among 
these 12 million people are in a better posi-
tion than the  others. Questions like whether 
all young people have access to schools with 
a decent standard of quality, whether parents 
can afford the school expenses, whether 
school facilities are adequate, whether there 
are sufficient number of teachers, whether 
families need to sacrifice something else, 
such as the medical treatment of one of 
their children to be able to pay for the school 
expenses of another child, whether the 
number of girls attending school is less than 
the number of boys are all relevant. 
Similarly, out of 12 million young people, 3.6 
million are working. To what extent is work 
life free of serious risks and dangers? Are 
 1.2.   Is youth policy sufficiently explicit?

17
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
1
will benefit, but also their families, their local 
communities and to some degree the country 
as a whole. 
By contrast, in the worst cases, opportunities 
ahead are much more limited. In spite of 
recent advances, many of Turkey’s young 
people still lack the basics of education and 
health, life skills and confidence to seize even 
those opportunities which are open to them. 
In these situations, everyone loses – the 
individuals affected, but also their families, 
their communities and in the long run, the 
whole country. 
Special Contribution     What is  Human Development?
 Human Development puts people at the centre of economic and social 
policy-making. The purpose is to establish the human concerns of the whole 
country’s population as the goal and ultimate test of good public and private 
action.
As the first  Human Development Report, published in 1990, put it:
	
“ Human Development is a process of enlarging people’s choices. The most 
critical of these wide-ranging choices are to live a long and healthy life, to 
be educated and to have access to resources needed for a decent standard 
of living. Additional choices include political freedom, guaranteed human 
rights and personal self-respect” (UNDP, Human Development Report 1990, 
page 1).
Since then, UNDP has issued nearly 20 International  Human Development 
Reports on themes ranging from the concept and measurement of Human 
Development to  Human Development and Finance, Participation, Human 
Security, Gender, Poverty, Economic Growth, Technology, Democracy, 
Cultural Liberty, Globalization and Human Rights, and Climate Change. 
Nearly 140 countries have prepared National Human Development Reports 
– over 550 in total – applying the methodology to issues, problems and 
policy within their own country. 
Human Development has important points of overlap with conventional 
economic policymaking. Both are concerned with economic progress and 
such issues as employment and improving living standards. But orthodox 
economic perspective focuses on how to make the economy function well, 
with the key assumption that if the economy works well and grows, people’s 
lives will automatically improve.  Human Development does not take this 
for granted and points to many exceptions. Under  Human Development, 
people are the ends, not the means. To strengthen their capabilities, expand 
their choices and guarantee their human rights should be the goal and test 
of all policy, economic and social, national, regional and global. 
by Sir Richard Jolly
they formally or informally employed? To 
what extent are their rights protected? Do 
they have social security? These are also very 
relevant questions in Turkey’s context.
As for those who neither work nor study: What 
are the chances for those one million young 
people, who are in fact actively seeking jobs, 
in this group? Or how will the 500 thousand, 
who are ready to work but are not actively 
seeking jobs and the 300 thousand, who 
have given up all hope and stopped seeking 
jobs altogether be given hope and chances 
again? Most importantly, will the  2.2 million 
young women who are neither in school nor 
seeking jobs but are staying at home, mostly 
taking care of their children or waiting for a 
prospective husband, start living a life of their 
own?15 Will the ones who migrate to cities 
from rural areas be able to participate in the 
urban labour market, which requires higher 
skills? How many of those who remain in rural 
areas will be able to emancipate themselves 
from societal pressures even if they wanted 
to go to school or find a real job rather than 
being unpaid family workers in agricultural 
production? 
This Report’s central focus is on people 
– in this case, on young women and men, 
with emphasis on the “invisibles.”  Human 
Development is a process of strengthening 
the capabilities of a country’s population 
and expanding their choices, with equity 
and respect for human rights. The aim of 
Human Development is to enable all of a 
country’s population to live long and healthy 
lives in dignity, with sufficient opportunities 
and resources for a life that is fulfilled and 
meaningful for themselves. 
Young people in Turkey today face many 
challenges to build their capabilities and 
make good choices. In the best cases, a world 
of opportunities lies ahead -and they have 
the health, the education, the life skills and 
the confidence to use these opportunities to 
the full. In these cases, not only the individuals 

18
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
1
Young people in Turkey today – those 
between the ages of 15 and 24, girls and 
boys, young women and young men in 
cities, towns and rural areas, in the West and 
in the East, in the South and the North – find 
themselves mostly somewhere between 
these extremes. A range of opportunities are 
open, but usually far fewer than they wish for 
or deserve. Many young people have some 
skills and education but not enough  – and 
certainly less than they need and less than 
Turkey requires, if the country is to advance 
in the globalizing knowledge economy 
driven world of the 21st century.  Although 
the modernisation process of the last 80 years 
has radically changed the society in general 
and opened many doors to millions of young 
people in terms of education, employment, 
health and participation, there are still young 
people held back by the needless fears and 
constraints of their families and communities, 
especially girls and young women, for whom 
marriage within the community may be the 
outer limits of what their families imagine and 
hope for.  
Some 
155 
countries 
worldwide 
have 
established their national youth policies 
and 168 have formed a youth coordination 
mechanism in the past 10 years.16 Turkey, the 
fastest growing country economically in its 
region and the OECD with one of the largest 
population of youth,  needs to catch up 
with this international progress. It needs  to 
develop a comprehensive youth policy that 
encompasses especially education, health, 
employment, social and political partici-
pation, and increase the coordination of 
youth-related institutions among all sectors.  
There is only a single provision, embedded 
in the Constitution of the Turkish Republic, 
which addresses the youth: 
“The state shall take measures to ensure the 
training and development of the youth into 
whose keeping our state, independence, and 
	
 
our Republic are entrusted, in the light of 
contemporary science, in line with the principles 
and reforms of Atatürk, and in opposition to 
ideas aiming at the destruction of the indivisible 
integrity of the state with its territory and 
nation. The state shall take necessary measures 
to protect the youth from alcohol and drug 
addiction, crime, gambling, and similar vices, 
and ignorance.”, stipulates Article 58.
A specific law devoted to youth is lacking. 
Youth rights and services are included in 
general laws (and within these laws and 
regulations, different definitions of youth are 
encountered).  The services included in these 
laws are carried out by departments in various 
public institutions. The General Directorate of 
Youth and Sports is the largest and most active 
institutional entity concerning youth matters 
except education. It has a directorate in each 
of the 81 provincial capitals. The Ministry of 
National Education, the National Agency, the 
Social Services and Child Protection Agency, 
the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, 
the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture 
and Tourism, the General Directorate of Social 
Services, the Family Research Institute, the 
General Directorate of Security, and local 
authorities are some of the other related 
agencies.17  However, the institutional and  
policy 
framework 
concerning 
youth 
lacks coherence, scope and effectiveness 
notwithstanding the broad scope of the 
policies indicated in the State Planning 
Organization (SPO) documents and the wide 
ranging functions of the main youth related 
government institutions stated above. It 
should  also be  mentioned here that there 
are  increasing levels of activity concerning 
youth in some municipalities like Metropoli-
tan Istanbul. 
The youth-related projects seem to be defined 
according to urgent needs –in a somewhat 
ad hoc way, without much institutionalization 
or planning. The fact that there is not a 
National Youth Council that will contribute to 

19
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
1
coordination in Turkey accounts at least partly 
for this problem18. There are two countries 
among the European countries which do not 
have a National Youth Council: Turkey and 
Poland. In Turkey there are councils formed 
by different non-governmental organization 
networks and initiatives realized by various 
youth organizations but neither the General 
Directorate of Youth and Sports which could 
be held responsible for youth policies, nor the 
ministries and their branches working in the 
fields of youth seem to deal with the issue 
comprehensively. 
There seems to be a lack of coordination 
among state institutions and NGOs working 
in the field of youth.19 Institutions that realize 
similar projects in the same field cannot 
form sufficient cooperative connections and 
bonds. As a result, since the state does not 
see a unified civil society entity, problems are 
perpetuated and solutions deferred. Official 
documents do indicate that “measures will 
be taken in order to enable the participation 
of youth in society and decision-making 
BOX 1.1.        YOUTH IN CENTRAL GOVERNMENT POLICY
State Planning Organization 2008-2010 Medium-term Programme
-	
Equal opportunities will be provided to women, youth, long-term unemployed, handicapped and the 
formerly convicted who face difficulties in the labour market.
-	
Measures will be taken to improve the interaction of youth with their family and the society, to build up 
their self-esteem and to increase their connection to the society in which they live, their susceptibility 
and their participation to decision making procedures.
Strategy of the Ninth Development Plan (2007-2013)
-	
Social affinity of the youth, sensitivity and self confidence will be developed in a manner to foster their 
confidence in the future.
-	
Equal opportunities will be provided for the women, the young, and the long-term unemployed, the 
disabled and former convicts, who encounter difficulties in the labour market. 
-	
Programmes will be developed to provide the young with experience in the labour market.
-	
Measures will be taken to ensure better communication of the young people with their families and 
the society, to develop their self-confidence, to increase their sense of belonging to the society and 
sensitivity towards the society they live in, and to ensure their participation in the decision making 
processes.
mechanisms” but there are no specific policies 
on how this would be done.20 An active NGO 
volunteer summarizes the situation as follows: 
“There are those who are dependent on NGOs. 
NGOs are disconnected and uninformed of each 
other.  They don’t know how to work together 
and to join their forces. There is a serious lack of 
coordination. Someone needs to do something 
about this. Establishments such as TÜSEV 
(Turkey Third Sector Foundation) should be 
encouraged. In fact, there are a lot of things that 
we can do and can be done but it seems as if we 
are handcuffed. If only they release us from these 
limitations, imagine what we could do”.21
The policy makers in Turkey need to see the 
benefits of formulating a comprehensive 
youth policy that will answer the needs of 
youth more extensively and ensure their 
participation in decision-making bodies.  
The majority of the NGOs working in the field 
of youth have already voiced their concern 
that a Youth Council is urgently needed. Such 
a Council should assist in the preparation of 

20
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
1
BOX 1.2.       THE GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF YOUTH AND SPORTS (GSGM)
The General Directorate of Youth and Sports (GSGM) under the Prime Ministry is the only public institution that 
has a defined job description in the Turkish Constitution, working directly with youth. Its Department of Youth 
Services has formally these functions under its responsibility:
The Department of Youth Services is a unit within the General Directorate of Youth and Sports where activities 
are carried out with the aim of providing youth the opportunity to enrich their free time with social and cultural 
activities.
Vision:
-	
Contributing to the social and cultural development of youth and their authorization,
-	
Ensuring active participation of youth in all areas of the society,
-	
Enhancing youth with skills to become productive, questioning and practical,
-	
Taking measures to protect the youth from bad habits,
-	
Cooperating with relevant public and private institutions and the civil society organizations for 
youth,
-	
Providing opportunities for the youth to learn and live their history and culture,
-	
Ensuring the integration of the youth with the youth in the world,
-	
Developing the concept of youth work and its dissemination,
-	
Contributing to the policy formulation procedures for the youth.
Mission:
-	
Organizing activities to contribute to the social and cultural development of the youth and to their 
authorization,
-	
Establishing modern and technologically advanced physical structures for the youth that are easily 
accessible to young people from all parts of the society,
-	
Adapting the existing physical structures to the current needs of the youth,
-	
Creating platforms for youth where opportunities are provided for sharing knowledge, skills and 
approach to young people from all parts of the society and where people from different cultures live, 
learn and share together,
-	
Organizing national and international activities for learning and developing the history, culture and 
social life of the young people,
-	
Organizing training programmes to help youth in expressing themselves more precisely, for their 
integration to social life and for creating new employment opportunities,
-	
Providing support to scientific work carried out in the field of youth.
With 113 Youth Centres established around Turkey, activities are carried to strengthen cooperation and soli-
darity among young people, to provide training for the development of basic skills in various fields and to 
socialize them by providing social and cultural events and courses.
However, sports are the most important and often the only service that GSGM offers to young people for 
recreational purposes. It operates youth centres, camps and clubs in addition to organizing cultural activities. 
The share allocated to the General Directorate of Youth and Sports from the Government’s budget is only 0.2% 
(approximately US$ 247 million)22 and only 1% of this financial support is allocated to the Department of Youth 
Services, which is the only body under GSGM not related to sports.23 In other words, Youth Services tries to 
enable 12 million young individuals to spend quality leisure time with a budget of only US$ 3.85 million. Even 
if the General Directorate of Youth and Sports (GSGM) has entered into an accelerated phase of restructuring 
with the support of the World Bank funds24, it is far from developing a youth policy in Turkey and legally does 
not have that authority.

21
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
1
together on such a bill. Without delay and with 
the participation of all parties, Turkey needs 
to render more articulate its youth policy and 
youth coordination mechanism. 
BOX 1.3.      YOUTH NGOs AND PUBLIC SECTOR SYNCHRONIZATION PROJECT 
The “Youth NGOs and Public Synchronization Project” was realized between December 2005 – December 2006 
in Ankara in particular, as well as in Adana, Erzurum, Isparta, Antalya, İstanbul, İzmir and Şanlıurfa. The project 
was executed under the leadership of Youth Services Centre (GSM), with the partnership of Turkey Youth Union 
Association, Ankara University European Communities Research Implementation Centre (ATAUM) and the 
General Directorate of Youth and Sports, and was supported by the European Union. 
This project was initiated in order to enhance the communication and cooperation of NGOs with the public 
sector and other youth NGOs and to establish permanent and sustainable youth policies. The project also 
aimed to support the establishment of youth policies and the operation of communication networks in the 
field of youth. 
Through this project the experiences of youth NGOs working together have increased, and many young 
people, youth NGOs and public personnel were informed on work regarding youth policies and their awareness 
was raised. Because NGOs and public institutions gained experience in working together during the project, 
the issues that prevented more effective activities to be realized became easier to eliminate. Enabling the 
information flow between NGOs and the public sector has contributed to the work on developing a youth 
policy and issuing a youth law. The first output of the communication network developed after the project 
on establishing youth policies was the “Youth Council Association Regulation” and the youth bill drafted by 
the parties during the project for the implementation of a Turkish National Youth Council. “A Youth Studies 
Coordination” unit was established within ATAUM with the partnership of GSM – Youth Services Centre which is 
a youth institution and Ankara University ATAUM which is a public institution.
a Youth Law in Turkey together with a Youth 
Protection Law. The outputs of the Youth 
NGOs and Public Synchronization Project 
realized during 2005-2006 (See Box 1.3.) show 
that NGOs and public institutions could work 
1.3.1. Turkey needs to go beyond  its 
present rather ad hoc, specific problem-
based, sectoral approaches to youth with 
a comprehensive youth policy and with 
institutions to ensure follow-up action.
A youth policy for Turkey should be based on 
a strong human rights dimension for all the 
country’s young men and women and should 
be forward-looking, anticipating future needs 
and problems. As guidelines for the future, 
the relevant policies need  to strengthen the 
capabilities of youth to live lives of freedom 
and dignity, enlarging their choices as well 
as enabling the country to develop in ways 
which offer opportunities for all its citizens 
and for Turkey the ability to play a wider role 
in the region, in Europe and the world. 
A multi-sectoral and multi-dimensional policy 
for youth advancement and protection could 
be in place by the end of 2008. To achieve 
this, politicians, decision takers and policy 
makers in Turkey need to accept the need 
to formulate a comprehensive youth policy, 
based on a nationwide diagnosis of issues 
and the ways of dealing with them. 
1.3.   For a comprehensive youth policy 

22
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
1
1.3.2. Youth policy needs to take into account 
different categories of youth in Turkey. 
It should not focus only on students or 
disproportionately on boys.  It should also 
focus on all young people who are working, 
and those who are not working or studying, 
especially young women whether they live in 
cities without any skills to participate in the 
labour market or in rural areas, pressurized by 
some socially conservative attitudes. 
What unlocks doors and enables most of the 
youth from different backgrounds to realize 
their potential are the country-level policies 
and practices. Opportunities especially in 
quality education, health, employment and 
participation can set free the potential of 
young people so that they can bring positive 
changes and further development to the 
country. The challenge that lies ahead 
for government institutions, civil society 
organizations, the private sector and trade 
unions in Turkey is to expand existing 
opportunities and extend these so that all 
young people can benefit from them. Policies 
also need to include the invisible youth, 
particularly young disabled people, and 
explore ways to increase their opportunities 
and to help them gain access to education 
BOX 1.4.       SOME SOCIALLY CONSERVATIVE RESTRICTIVE ATTITUDES  ESPECIALLY HINDER YOUNG WOMEN
Village women who participated in a focus group meeting in South-eastern Turkey related: 
“We live in crowded families, together with the uncles and all… They won’t let us go to school.” 
“Here in our village, if the elderly relatives say ‘no’, girls can’t go to school. I have a brother and my family tries to keep 
him in school, but he’s just not interested. As for me, I really want to go to school, but they won’t let me. They say ‘what 
would you do at school?’”
It is mostly young men who benefit from the limited social facilities they have in rural environments. In this 
respect, the difference between the developed and less developed regions of Turkey is relatively limited. Young 
men who attended a focus group in a village in the Bitlis province of South-eastern Turkey said: “Here, life is 
easier for men. We can at least walk up to the main road, hitchhike to the town and go to a coffeehouse or a pastry 
shop there. But for girls, this is both dangerous and impossible.” A young girl from a village in the more developed 
Thracian Region in western Turkey related similar experiences: “In our village, life begins after midnight… Folks 
gather in groups, and drink and chat for hours. But girls cannot join them. This kind of fun is strictly for men. We girls 
cannot go out at night.”
Girls are also not able to benefit from the internet cafes that have been springing up lately around villages. They 
are afraid of being accused of “chatting with men on the internet” if they venture to go to such a place. Aslı, who 
complained about not being able to go to the internet café that just opened in her village in the western Thrace 
region said that her folks tell her “That place is full of men. What business do girls have among so many men?”25 
Indeed, parents get concerned when they don’t quite know what their children are doing. It is not only 
about internet cafes but as in the case of Aysel who is participating in the social responsibility projects of her 
municipality, parents need to be convinced that the place is safe for their children: “My father is a despot who has 
strict rules and who never says ‘yes’ to something he said ‘no’ before. But I made an effort. I tried to explain to  them 
what I do. For example I introduced my friends to them and I even introduced my friends’ families to them. Now my 
parents are very pleased when they are stopped by a municipality official on the road and hear him say ‘your daughter 
is a very hard-working, bright girl’ and they don’t intervene anymore”.
Aysel’s approach can be adopted in internet cafés as well. The secret seems to lie in knowing. Thus, some joint 
internet access programmes can be arranged for the young generation where they can come together with 
their elders. In this way, various social pressures could be avoided as well as opportunities for both young and 
old created. This could be a good example where local authorities could provide financing and use it to the 
advantage of  Human Development policy. 

23
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
1
and resources necessary for their full 
development. In many respects their needs 
are different, and greater than those of more 
visible ones.  
1.3.3. Youth policy needs to be designed in a 
participatory manner. 
Turkish youth throughout the country need 
to take part in designing the youth policy. All 
stakeholders such as related state institutions 
and bodies, local authorities, youth NGOs, 
academics, private sector, media and trade 
unions should be included. A youth council 
encompassing all youth NGOs may be helpful 
to help drive the process. 
The creation of a youth parliament, in the 
longer run, may provide a platform for young 
people to express themselves on issues and 
policies which affect them. Scandinavian 
countries provide good examples. This 
would also alleviate the concerns regarding 
the difficulties of becoming MPs for youth, 
although the election age is now reduced to 
25 from 30.  
1.3.4. Youth policy needs to explore ways 
to involve youth actively in the decision-
making mechanisms of the country. 
Recent advance of information technologies 
raise new challenges and bring new opportuni-
ties for youth to express their views as well as to 
establish relations with young people in other 
parts of the world. Turkey’s youth policy should 
aim at enabling its young people to access more 
easily and extensively, despite the already rapid 
increase, digital technology under the equality 
principle. Enabling every youth to access digital 
technology except for child pornography 
and a few other issues will also allow them to 
come across the participatory/democratic 
society and citizenship concept earlier.
1.3.5. Transition from school to work life needs 
to be an important part of the youth policy. 
While establishing a youth policy, evaluation 
of one of the most important problems of 
youth in Turkey --that is transition from school 
to work life-- needs to be made in order to 
prevent youth from thinking “why did I go to 
school all these years?” and from becoming 
hostile to society. Youth should be guided 
in choosing the vocational branches of the 
future, and universities and vocational schools 
should be arranged according to their needs. 
A more comprehensive and formal study 
regarding current trends and future needs 
would be enlightening.
1.3.6. An institutional instrument with a 
flexible, non-centralised, non-bureaucratic 
structure could  help achieve greater coher-
ence in policies and activities related to 
youth and provide a mechanism for regular 
monitoring.   
Young people should make up a high 
proportion of  its total membership. 
In conclusion, Turkey needs to go through 
various steps to develop a comprehensive 
national youth policy.26  First the term “youth” 
needs to  be defined in order to clarify the 
target group in youth policies. Then comes 
the stage of establishing a youth profile. As 
stated above, there are different categories 
of young people with different needs. When 
establishing a youth profile, priority should 
be given to recognizing the concerns of 
young people themselves, not the concerns 
of society in general. The third step would be 
setting strategic goals to clarify the desired 
outcomes of a prospective youth policy. 
These strategic goals carry the spirit of the 
vision the country has for its youth. Abating 
youth’s 
vulnerabilities, 
increasing 
their 
strengths, improving support mechanisms, 
helping young people develop their human 
and social identities and helping them make 
secure beginnings would well reflect a  Human 
Development-based vision. A participatory 
formulation process would follow the setup 

24
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
1
of the strategic goals as a fourth step. A 
consultation process giving young people the 
space to participate effectively will not be easy 
and fast but it would serve well democracy 
and the idea of youth-centrism.
 The next stage would be to mainstream the 
youth policy. Considering the fact that young 
people are not isolated from other people 
and that they assume different roles in society 
other than being young, mainstreaming 
youth issues is essential. Relating youth issues 
with other sectoral policies and ensuring 
coordination with the overall national 
development framework is a must in order to 
ensure sustainable positive outcomes. 
Formulating a policy that reads perfect on 
paper will not suffice to make a difference. 
Implementation of the policy is what matters 
most. Promoting the youth policy, formulating 
a national action plan and developing 
projects accordingly, creating the necessary 
mechanisms for coordination, monitoring and 
evaluating, and ensuring youth participation 
by creating multiple appropriate milieus are 
crucial for the democratic implementation 
process. The whole process would comprise a 
strong element of  decentralisation including 
at the  local government level.

Chapter 2
EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUTH

“Education is what survives when what has been learnt 
has been forgotten.” 
	
	
	
	
	
 
B. F. Skinner

27
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
2
Despite this considerable increase, expenditure 
on education is still low compared to OECD 
countries. Expenditures per primary, secondary 
(and post-secondary non-tertiary) students 
increased in most countries between 1995 
and 2004. The increase is 50% or more in a 
group of countries including Turkey, Greece, 
Hungary, Ireland, Poland, Portugal, and the 
Slovak Republic. Still, while OECD countries 
spend on average US$ 81,485 per student 
over the expected duration of primary and 
secondary education, total expenditure for 
each primary and secondary student is under 
US$ 40,000 in Turkey, similar to the amounts 
spent by Mexico, Poland, and the Slovak 
Republic. This expenditure goes up to US$ 
100,000 or more in Austria, Denmark, Iceland, 
Luxembourg, Norway, Switzerland and the 
United States.34
In 1997 the number of years of compulsory 
primary school education in Turkey was 
increased to eight years (from five).35 This 
change also increased the net enrolment 
ratio to a level of 89%. But still only 56% of 
young people are continuing to high school 
after primary school. Only 18% make it to the 
university right after graduating from high 
school.36 Figure 2.1 draws a rather striking 
picture of the elimination of youth as they 
attempt to advance in the educational 
system. 
Net enrolment rates fall below the country-
level rates especially in Southeastern and 
Northeastern Anatolian regions. While the 
country-level average schooling rate at 
primary education level is 89% as shown 
above, this rate is 79% in Southeastern 
Anatolian region and 84% in Northeastern 
Anatolia. The average schooling rate at 
Education, together with health and personal 
freedoms, form the elementary requisites of 
well-being which place people at the centre 
of all development activities. Enhancing 
individuals’ capabilities in these fundamental 
areas lies at the core of the “Human 
Development” concept.  Education is one of 
the most effective tools to enhance people’s 
achievements, freedoms and capabilities. It 
works as a master key opening many doors. 
Education is also a fundamental human 
right. The Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights says “Every individual has the right to 
get an education”.27 The Convention on the 
Rights of the Child28, International Covenant 
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights29 
and European Human Rights Convention30 
all guarantee the right to education. Turkey 
is a party to all these conventions. The 
Constitution of the Turkish Republic also 
declares that “No one shall be deprived of the 
right of learning and education. …Primary 
education is compulsory for all citizens of both 
sexes and is free of charge in state schools...” 31 
The share of Ministry of National Education 
(MoNE) in the central budget has been 
increasing steadily in the last five years.32 
In 2006, this share in the budget was 9.5%, 
increasing to 10.4% in 2007, roughly 3.4% 
of Turkey’s GNP. With this budget, MoNE 
makes public education available to 5.5 
million students in 34,000 primary schools 
and 3.5 million students in 7,500 secondary 
schools—4,200 of which are vocational 
schools reaching 1.25 million students. MoNE 
also extends scholarships for 120,000 primary 
and secondary school students. The monthly 
scholarship provided to each student was 
raised from US$ 10 in 2002 to US$ 43 in 
2007.33
CHAPTER 2	 EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUTH
2.1.    Quantity issue: Numbers and percentages in education

28
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
2
majority (64.4%) did not enjoy going to school 
during the previous year. Of those young 
people who did not continue their education, 
11% were kept from going to school by their 
parents. The number of young males who 
stopped going to school for having to work to 
earn money is more than twice the number of 
young females who are in the same position; 
while the number of young women who 
had to leave school early because of family 
pressure is nearly nine times the number of 
young men in the same situation. In short, 
gender roles in society drive to a considerable 
extent the young male toward work life and 
the young female in the direction of home.
secondary education level for the country is 
56%, while it is 26% in Southeastern Anatolia 
and 41% in Northeastern Anatolia.37
Young people who did not attend post-
secondary  school institutions or university 
were questioned as part of The State of Youth 
Survey as to their reasons why. Some 30% said 
they either had to go to work to earn money 
or they did not have the economic means to 
pay for school expenses, while for 50% the 
stated reason was “lack of interest or desire.” 
If we look more closely at this last group 
however, we see that 60% of those are from 
lower income families, and that a sizeable 
BOX 2.1.        PRE-SCHOOL EDUCATION IN TURKEY
Some of the most important abilities for communal solidarity and peace as well as for a healthy personal life are 
acquired during pre-school education. Accordingly, in most developed countries, a significant part of  public 
spending made on education is channelled to pre-school education. In Turkey, however, the situation is the 
opposite. Among 1.4 million babies born every year in Turkey,  approximately 20% receive early childhood 
education. And most of those children live in big cities and in relatively better economic situations.38 According 
to the State of Youth Survey, youth who have the highest rate of pre-school education opportunity are the ones 
belonging to the highest income group (40.3%). A decrease in socio-economic status also brings a decrease in 
the rate of those who receive pre-school education.
As also advocated in the public campaign entitled “7 is too late (7 Çok Geç)”  by the Turkish NGO  ‘Mother and 
Child Education Foundation’ (AÇEV), early childhood education is a vital and critical process. Since basic social 
and analytical skills are developed during the ages of 0-6, early childhood education makes a huge difference 
in a person’s life. It enriches a child’s future choices. In economic terms, early childhood education pays off very 
well, too. According to AÇEV, investment in early school education has a seven-fold return to the economy.39
Figure 2.1     The selected youth: Net schooling percentages at each level

29
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
2
Besides those who leave school early or drop-
out of school at early stages, there are many 
others who never have the chance to go to 
school. There are serious questions awaiting 
answers. For example, is there a school in the 
village or small town where the family lives? 
If not, will the parents send their children to 
school in another place?  
The non-formal education system coordinated 
by the Ministry of National Education and 
conducted by different institutions including 
private and civil society institutions as well as 
state institutions offer opportunities for such 
young people. 
The Open School system, operated by the 
Ministry of Education works by using distant 
learning methods. Curricula are taught through 
TV 
broadcasting; 
exams 
are 
conducted 
countrywide and the graduates are awarded 
officially acknowledged diplomas. During 
the 2006-2007 school year, open primary 
schools extended educational services to 
109,000 active students and open secondary 
schools to 193,000 students. The Open 
Vocational Schools, established in early 
2006, have reached 56,000 youth either by 
TV broadcasting or, in some cases, through 
face-to-face 
teaching. 
Open 
Vocational 
and Technical Schools also offer vocational 
training courses and certificate programmes 
to primary school graduates who want to 
acquire new vocational skills or advance in 
their occupations.40 Yet, the fact that there 
are 6.1 million illiterate people who are 15+, 
4.2 million of whom are between the ages of 
15 and 64, in Turkey indicates that the Open 
School system needs to be developed further 
in order to reach these people and help them 
to read and write.41  
These distant open education systems are 
especially important in creating new oppor-
tunities for disadvantaged young people. The 
young who were not sent to school or had 
to drop out, those with health problems, or 
who previously had experienced detention 
or imprisonment can use this opportunity to 
get primary or secondary school, or university 
diplomas. 
The Ministry of National Education also 
coordinates Public Education Centres (Halk 
Eğitim Merkezleri) and Vocational Education 
Centres (Mesleki Eğitim Merkezleri) with the 
help of other state institutions such as the 
Administration for Developing and Support-
ing Small and Medium-sized Industries 
(KOSGEB) and the Turkish Labour Organiza-
tion (İŞKUR). Municipal bodies, private 
companies and NGOs support these centres 
with their financial or volunteer assistance. 
There are more than 6,000 public education 
centres and vocational training centres in 
Turkey. Every year, approximately 1.6 million 
people receive technical and applied training 
in computer literacy, handicrafts, and other 
vocational skills, as well as learning to read 
and write. Of the more than 1.3 million 
trainees who attend the public education 
centres every year, 56% are women, while 
the majority of the more than 300 thousand 
participants of the vocational training courses 
are men, with women constituting only 15%.
Many different institutions have started 
offering non-formal education recently. 
The Turkish National Agency is promoting 
non-formal education in the framework of 
the EU through peer training and in-service 
training programmes. Private companies 
offer programmes for their staff to enhance 
their personal and professional development. 
NGOs offer socially oriented training both for 
their volunteers and the public in general 
about team work, project management, 
democracy and human rights, reproductive 
health, health literacy, nature and environ-
ment protection etc. Several youth NGOs 
hold peer training programmes and internal 
training seminars for the volunteers working 
in their organizations in order to educate 
young trainers who can spread what they 

30
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
2
have learnt by training other people and 
multiply the benefits to others. 
There are some serious remaining constraints 
confronting young persons in making their 
choices in education. The socio-economic 
conditions seem to be the main determinant. 
Ender is originally from Siirt but has migrated 
to Adana and has seven siblings. His story is 
illuminating and by no means an exception. 
“We didn’t have a school in the village, so we 
came here. We are six-seven kids. At that time 
there was nobody at home who could work. We 
sold simits (traditional Turkish pretzels), and we 
shined shoes. My three brothers and I worked, 
so our other brothers and sisters could go to 
school…”42 As in Ender’s experience, child 
and youth labour can be a survival means for 
many families who migrate to cities and many 
children start work life at early ages, without 
ever getting a chance to go to school. The 
State of Youth Survey shows that 22% of the 
young labourers have started working before 
the age of 15, which is the legal starting age 
 Special Contribution      Gender inequality is a serious issue in education
The combined effect of low public expenditure and a heavy reliance on private expenditure means that low-
income families wishing to send their children to school will often give preference to one child over another. 
When the choice is between educating a son or a daughter, the choice is often in favour of the boy and the 
issue of gender becomes further complicated by poverty for many adolescent girls in Turkey.
The gender gap in gross enrolment in secondary education was 17% in the 2002-2003 academic year — 
indicating a substantial number of adolescent girls who either dropped out or were withdrawn from the 
educational system by their families for various reasons. The gender gap in enrolment and attendance in 
primary education has since closed by 15% but universal access to education for adolescent girls remains a 
long way off.
The problem becomes more accentuated between the sixth and eighth grades, by which time high numbers 
of adolescent girls have already been committed to marriage or work or both — and to a future of domesticity 
and unfulfilled potential either way. This is reflected in the fact that only 25% of the female population over 15 
years of age are accounted for in labour force participation rates. Adolescent girls, women, their families and 
the country itself lose out as a result.
by UNICEF/Turkey
Sources: Primary School Enrolment and Attendance, Ministry of National Education (MoNE) Research and 
Planning Committee, Ankara, 2003; Dr J. F., Özcan, Prof. Y. Z. and Smulders, A. E. M., Girls’ Education Campaign 
Turkey, MoNE and UNICEF, Ankara, 2007; Prime Ministry Turkish Statistical Institute.
for apprenticeship. 
Even if many do not get the chance to climb up 
the ladder of education due to various reasons, 
young people believe that receiving an educa-
tion is per se important for their lives. 75% of 
young people who participated in the State of 
Youth Survey do not agree with the idea that 
going to school is a waste of time. But when 
asked about the effect their education has on 
finding jobs, the situation changes. 37% of the 
youth believe that their education does not 
play an important role in finding jobs. Those
who think that education partially affects 
employment chances constitute 12%. In other 
words, half of all youth stated that their educa-
tion did not help or only partially helped them 
in finding jobs. 
Despite these facts, the increase in the 
education level does create a positive effect 
on finding a job and on self-esteem. While 34% 
of primary school graduates think that their 
education did or will have an effect on finding 

31
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
2
my life in private courses and exams. I thought 
‘this would look good on my CV’ but I am still 
unemployed. In fact looking for jobs became my 
job.” 
University education in Turkey is only possi-
ble after passing a central exam called ÖSS44 
and the number of people who take the 
university exam is increasing every year.  Some 
1.6 million students took the exam in 2007.45 
Families sacrifice a lot to send their children 
to university. Dershane  (private courses pre-
paring students for the university exam) fees 
are so high that they significantly increase 
Turkey’s education expenditure per capita. 
The number of universities has increased 
a job, this rate increases to 60.6% among 
university graduates. Another important 
point derived from the Survey regarding 
the education-employment relation is the 
difference between students and graduates. 
Graduates who have a work or internship 
experience say that their education helps/
helped less in finding a job. Students who 
are still continuing their education, on the 
other hand, have higher hopes in this regard. 
Indeed, graduates learn by experience that 
their university diploma isn’t a guarantee for 
a job. Pınar, one of the unemployed with a 
university diploma says: “Since my university 
years I have been thinking ‘I have to learn English’, 
‘I have to learn how to use a computer’; I spent 
To improve the school attendance of pupils living in remote, sparsely populated regions, enduring geographical 
and climatic hardships, alternative services such as the school-bus transportation system, and the establishment 
of regional elementary and secondary boarding schools are being offered. According to the figures pertaining to 
the beginning of the 2006-2007 school year, a total of 694,329 students from all geographical regions of Turkey 
were transported, free of charge, from their villages or small towns to schools in the provincial capitals (a total 
of 6,410 individual schools) which offer better educational facilities, and were provided with lunch packages, 
thanks to the school-bus transportation service. The Ministry of Education provides for all expenses of those 
students who attend the Regional and Provincial Boarding Schools (YIBO/Yatılı İl Bölge Okulları). In other state 
boarding schools, too, successful students who qualify are entitled to get full financial support for their living 
and educational expenses. When one looks at the geographical distribution of these schools, there is at least one 
YIBO in every province but Black Sea region ranks first, having 146 YIBOs in total. The total number of students 
attending YIBOs across the country stands at 166,794.43 Yet, when referring to the YIBO’s, the gender imbalance 
in enrolment rates in these schools should be mentioned.  According to 2006-2007 Ministry of Education figures, 
only about 40% of YIBO students are girls. This points to a serious gender inequality at these schools.
The school bus transportation system also proves very useful for physically handicapped young people who are 
in primary or secondary schools. A total of 16,171 handicapped students benefited from this service during the 
2005-2006 school year and were able to continue their education.
Another opportunity is the Conditional Cash Transfers (CCT) offered by the General Directorate of Social Assist-
ance and Solidarity (SYDGM) within the Prime Ministry. SYDGM extends financial support for the education of 
young people who have no social security and cannot go to school because of economic difficulties. Besides 
paying regular cash allowances, i.e. CCTs, for young people continuing their primary or secondary education, 
SYDGM also provides needy students free school materials at the beginning of each semester. In order to benefit 
from the CCT, students must attend 80% of classes every month, and not repeat more than one year (throughout 
all school years). As of October 2006, more than 1.5 million students benefited from CCTs which greatly increased 
the ratio of students who advanced to secondary school and continued their studies beyond. Overall in Turkey, 
during the school year of 2003-2004, one out of two pupils, who attended the 8th grade were able to pass on to 
high school (Lycee); while 7 out of every 10 children who benefited from the CCT achieved this success. During 
the same period, the ratio of female students who graduated from the 8th grade and continued on to second-
ary school was 38.7%, while the corresponding ratio for girls who benefited from CCT was a net 75.4%.
BOX. 2.2         EFFORTS TO IMPROVE SCHOOL ATTENDANCE

32
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
2
rapidly in order to meet the demand, but still 
only one quarter of the applicants can actually 
make it to the university.
The fact that the enrolment rate decreases by 
37 percentage points, from 56% in secondary 
education to 19% in tertiary education, 
indicates that many students who gain the 
right to enter a university do not or cannot 
actually go to the university.46 This is partly 
the result of the university entrance system 
mentioned above and partly due to the 
economic and social conditions that urge 
young men to find jobs and a very large 
proportion of the young women not to seek 
employment while taking on the traditional 
role of wife and mother. 
The share allocated to higher education 
institutions and the Council of Higher 
Education (YÖK), is 3.21% of the consolidated 
budget, amounting to US$ 5 billion or rough-
ly 1% of the GNP in 2007. There are 68 public47 
and 25 private universities in Turkey teaching 
a total of 2.5 million students.48 
Per capita expenditure on core educational 
The number of private courses in Turkey increased more than 20-fold from 174 in 1984 to almost 4,000 in the 
2006-2007 education year. This number is greater than the number of standard formal high schools which is 
3,690. One third of the private courses that have over 1 million students are in the three biggest cities: İstanbul, 
Ankara and İzmir. There are private courses available for every level of exams, such as OKS (secondary school 
entrance exam), KPSS (public service personnel selection exam), DGS (school transfer exam), YDS (foreign 
languages exam) and ÖSS (university entrance and placement exam). 
Preparation for university exams is particularly noteworthy. In 2007 more than 1.7 million candidates took the 
ÖSS exam. But the quota of universities, including open education and equivalent degree is only 600 thousand. 
It is not surprising that an exam in which the competition is so intense has created a sector of its own. But 
another important factor that increases the demand for private courses is, in many instances, the mistrust felt 
towards the quality of education in both public and private schools. 
Average annual fees for private courses vary between US$ 1,500 and US$ 3,500. According to the World Bank’s 
‘Education Sector in Turkey’ report in 2005, the money spent for exam preparations in Turkey was US$ 650 million 
in 2002. The same research also reports that 11.4% of the total money spent for education by families goes to 
private courses and that this amount equals one fifth of public spending made on all universities in Turkey. 
Sources: Ankara Chamber of Commerce, Private Courses File, 2004; World Bank Education Sector in Turkey, 2005; 
National Education Statistics: Formal Education, 2006-2007.
BOX 2.3         SECTOR WITHIN SECTOR: PRIVATE COURSES IN TURKEY 
services in higher education institutions, 
excluding R&D (research and development) 
activities and supplementary services is US$ 
7,664 on average in OECD countries, while the 
amount can reach up to US$ 9,000 in Australia, 
Austria, Denmark, Norway, Switzerland and 
the United States. Turkey is among the group 
of countries that spend below US$ 4,500 
along with Greece, Italy and Poland in the 
OECD zone.49 A positive feature of Turkey is its 
capital expenditures in higher education.  In 
13 out of the 31 OECD countries and partner 
countries for which data are available, the 
proportion spent on capital expenditure at 
the tertiary level is 10% or more. In Greece, 
South Korea, Spain and Turkey it is above 
17%.50
Scholarships and loans are distributed by 
the General Directorate of Higher Education 
Credits and Hostels Institution (Yurt-Kur). 
Yurt-Kur provides US$ 115 worth of loan for 
every university student who is willing to 
apply and the same amount of scholarship 
to all students who prove that they are in 
need of support. Still, only 560 thousand 
university students benefit from these loans 

33
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
2
have a significant effect on people’s decision 
to ask for financial support.  The repayment 
period is approximately 3-4 years in Turkey, 
while it is 20 years or more in Iceland, Norway 
and Sweden where almost 100% of students 
get loans.52 In addition to the loan schemes, 
there are 220 student dormitories serving the 
accommodation need of higher education 
students under the coordination of Yurt-Kur.
Guaranteeing all children access to education 
does not suffice if school graduates cannot 
read and write properly and if they are not 
equipped with some general skills which are 
vital in today’s world such as computer literacy, 
critical thinking and effective problem-
solving. Today’s economies are more service-
oriented and more IT-based, thus requiring 
more computer skills. Computer literacy has 
become a basic requirement to succeed 
in work life.53 Quality education equipping 
people with such skills is necessary. 
Although the length of schooling years has 
increased in Turkey, this does not guarantee 
acquiring the contemporary basic skills. 
According to a research conducted in 2001, 
42% of fourth grade students in Turkey were 
in the lowest quintile of the reading literacy 
scale.54   Too many students are graduating 
from schools without mastering a set of 
minimum skills, as stated in the 2005 UNESCO 
Education for All Monitoring Report. The 
extent to which education can translate into 
personal, social and developmental benefits is 
vital but “in many countries that are striving to 
guarantee all children the right to education, 
the focus on access [to education] often 
overshadows attention to quality.”  Turkey 
is one of these countries. EDI (Education for 
All Development Index), an index designed 
by UNESCO to measure the development of 
education in different regions of the world, 
ranks Turkey 77th among 125 countries. 
Similarly, OECD’s Programme for International 
Student Assessment (PISA) research in 2003 
among 15-year-old youths living in OECD 
countries focused on how good educational 
systems prepare students for life. In this study, 
students’ ability to solve real-life problems 
was measured. They were asked questions 
that can only be answered by combining 
and analyzing different subject materials 
learned at school. Turkey ranked 5th from the 
bottom among 40 participating countries, 
in terms of the success of students to solve 
such problems.55 This shows that a majority 
of students in Turkey cannot synthesize the 
information they have acquired from different 
sources. 
The Ministry of National Education is working 
on a comprehensive reform programme 
covering many different levels and intro-
ducing changes one after another in order 
to better the quality of education. But the 
rapidly changing nature of education policies 
poses a major implementation challenge. 
Too fast changes and radical reforms affect 
young people in negative ways. Young 
people want to see an end to too frequent 
changes of direction that come with every 
new government or even with a shift of the 
Minister of Education. A 23-year-old man 
from Bitlis, a small city in the Southeast, 
voices a common concern of young people: 
“When I was in the elementary school, I 
wanted to go to the Vocational Religious High 
2.2.       What about quality? 
and 130 thousand from the scholarships.51 
This appears to be partly due to the fact that 
the availability of these support schemes 
is, somewhat surprisingly, not known to the 
majority of young people. When asked if they 
were aware of any state scholarship or loan 
schemes, more than 50% of young people 
who responded to the State of Youth Survey 
said no. Repayment of these loans is an issue 
that needs attention because repayments can 

34
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
2
School, (to become an imam). My family was 
conservatively religious back then. Frankly, I was, 
too. The Religious High Schools were openly 
supported by the Government of those years. 
When I reached middle school age, religious 
high schools changed status; they were made 
less advantageous for future prospects. It 
became more difficult for their graduates to take 
the university entrance exams and to succeed 
at them. So, I thought I should go to a technical 
vocational school. Same thing happened; 
doors were closed on them too… So I went 
to a standard Secondary School. And when I 
finished secondary school, look what I had: the 
Government decided to accept more students 
from vocational schools into universities! So 
I regretted not having gone to a vocational 
school.  Now, I’m trying to get myself into some 
sort of a job… The (present) government doesn’t 
support Standard Lycees any more. And for me, 
it’s like, I’m out in the open now…”
Competent 
teachers 
and 
an 
effective 
governance system constitute the key 
components of a successful implementation 
of the reforms.  The status and capacity of 
teachers should be improved, and both 
professional and financial incentive systems 
for improved performance and for working 
in disadvantaged areas should be adopted. 
Similarly, better qualified individuals must be 
attracted into the teaching profession and 
be trained adequately through pre-service 
teacher training programmes. Intensified 
efforts for in-service training of teachers 
are essential, particularly for the successful 
implementation 
of 
the 
child-centred 
approach in the classroom and the integrated 
classroom approach for those students with 
special needs. 
Teachers face other difficulties as well. Işıl is 
one of the young teachers trying to imple-
ment the new curriculum: “There is no 
time to implement the new curriculum. First 
teaching   the  children, then  controlling  the 
crowded classes and then trying to carry out 
the activities… Since we have not done such 
things before, we feel pressurized. And not every 
school has the tools to realise the suggested 
activities. I also noticed that the new research 
assignments we give to children are usually 
done by their parents. The parents do it to please 
their children; the children do it to please their 
teachers, and the teachers do it to please the 
State. I do not think the kids really internalize 
these new techniques.”56  
Restructuring 
the 
current 
education 
governance system in Turkey is an essential 
and missing component of the ongoing 
reform efforts.  Such a restructuring will 
have to ensure an appropriate level of 
decentralization, an improved capacity of 
school administration and an effective policy 
and performance monitoring system in the 
provinces and in Ankara.  A new system 
must be based on the principles of strongly 
increasing transparency, accountability and 
local participation.
Although lost agricultural jobs were more 
than compensated by non-agricultural ones, 
Turkey has on the whole not been successful 
in creating a sufficient number of new jobs 
compared to its needs, despite its remarkable 
economic growth in the last five years. 
Apart from continuing high unemployment 
in general, a very large number of new 
graduates from high schools and universities 
are confronted with great difficulties in find-
ing appropriate jobs and face unemployment. 
This situation has a side effect, too. It reduces 
the societal value of education in general.57 
In this respect, the difference between 
the situation of graduates from the best 
universities and the others which constitute 
a large majority is very pronounced. The new 
graduate and his/her family start to lose hope 
as the duration of unemployment lengthens. 
One does not only begin questioning the 
educational system or other policies, but also 
the whole system. Young people and their 
families lose their trust in the State. Ingrained 

35
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
2
negative attitudes towards education and 
training make it hard to design and implement 
policies to combat unemployment, especially 
youth unemployment.58 On the other hand, 
it needs to be pointed out that the 2006 
labour force participation rate figures for 
higher education (university and other 
tertiary) graduates is 84% for men and 70% for 
women; their unemployment rates are 7.8% 
and 13% respectively. This is a factor which 
does not eliminate the seriousness of the 
problem relating to the university education-
employment relation but  increases the 
likelihood of success of new efforts by show-
ing that the base on which  new measures will 
be built is not so thin. In fact, the situation re-
lating to secondary and vocational education 
is more serious. 
Although employers say that there is a lack of 
technicians rather than university graduates, 
according to the data of the Turkish Statistics 
Institute, the number of people who have 
graduated from vocational schools and 
who are currently unemployed exceeds 250 
thousand. Both employers and the young 
people who participated in our focus group 
meetings complained about the insufficiency, 
rather low quality and lack of relevance to the 
contemporary labour market demand of the 
education given in vocational schools. What 
makes matters worse is that the graduates 
of vocational schools are respected less in 
society than university graduates. Realizing 
the problems regarding vocational schools, 
the private sector has taken action to improve 
the quality of education in these schools in 
recent years and now many new vocational 
education projects are being developed.59 
Vocational high schools present an alternative 
to general secondary schools, especially 
for low-income families that cannot afford 
many years of schooling for their children 
and choose to send them to these vocational 
schools so that they can acquire some kind of 
qualification or certification and start working 
earlier. 36% of all secondary school students 
currently attend vocational high schools.60 
Because of the current university system, the 
decision to attend a vocational school or a 
general secondary school heavily determines 
the future of a young person’s education 
life. If a vocational high school student later 
changes his/her mind and wants to enter the 
university, his/her chances will be very low61 
due to the coefficient applied to vocational 
school graduates in the entrance exam.62
Quality education has an important role in 
increasing one’s well-being. Well-educated 
young people are more likely to explore 
alternative ways or create new opportunities 
for themselves. The Turkish education system 
“channels an elite few to some good schools 
like Science High Schools or ‘Anatolian’ High 
Schools where the medium of instruction is 
English. This is done at the expense of the 
rest of the system, i.e. the standard public 
schools.”63 There are huge disparities among 
standard public schools and these Science 
and Anatolian Schools in Turkey. OECD’s PISA 
study of 2003, mentioned above, indicates 
that Turkey has the highest rate of standard 
divergence among its stu-dents’ scores 
because the best and the worst scorers  are 
evaluated together.64  While average Turkish 
literacy and mathematics standards were 
low by international comparisons, a number 
of students attend-ing these quality schools 
scored very high.
Although the eight year compulsory edu-
cation has been in place since 1997, there 
are still five-year elementary schools in some 
villages and village teachers working there, 
sometimes teaching five different grades 
in the same classroom… A young male 
teacher serving in a village of Bitlis (in the 
Southeast), under extremely hard conditions, 
teaching all five grades of elementary school 
in one single classroom, tells his story:  “I divide 
the blackboard into five sections, writing the 
lesson of each class in different sections. I think to 
myself ‘I divide the blackboard into five, but can 

36
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
2
I divide myself, too?’ Each class has a different 
lesson, different curriculum and different levels. 
Shall I handle this kid or the other? Each class is 
taught 6 hours a day (theoretically). But what 
I do is teach the first grade in the first hour, the 
second grade in the second hour and so on. So, 
I teach the first grade only one hour every day. 
Up comes the end of the year, and the first grade 
kids still can’t read and write properly. And I bang 
my head against the wall…” 
When a child completes his/her primary 
education, access to good quality secondary 
schools requires high achievement in the 
nationwide exam (OKS/Secondary School 
Entrance Exam) or strong financial means. If 
the family can afford it, there are good pri-
vate schools, too. Of course, the ones who get 
into better high schools get better education 
and go to better universities and so on, and 
inequalities increase at every step of the 
way. An education system that offers truly 
equitable opportunities to all young people 
from all socio-economic backgrounds is the 
cornerstone of high Human Development in 
a country.  
2.3.      For more and better education
1. Equal education opportunities need 
to be improved. Problems with access to 
education represent a paucity of opportunity 
that prevents many young people from 
enjoying meaningful participation in the 
economic and social life of the country, 
hindering 
their 
capacity 
to 
become 
productive, fulfilled citizens. There are 
marked disparities in access to education for 
children of low-income families. Spending on 
education and health care constitute a third 
of total household expenditures, a fact which 
effectively excludes children of low-income 
families from benefiting to the same degree 
from education as their peers from wealthier 
families do. Private spending on schools and 
dershane accounts for a considerable part of 
the household expenditure—an inescapable 
outlay that is well beyond the means of one 
in six young people whose families live below 
the poverty line.65 Thus, expanding education 
to provide opportunities for all is one priority. 
The government can weaken the link be-
tween a young person’s socio-economic 
status and his/her educational attainment 
through effective education policies.  Some 
examples of such policies include the 
following:
•   By focusing on early childhood education 
and ensuring that children from different 
socio-economic backgrounds have access 
to quality early childhood education, the 
government can ensure that children enter 
primary schools on a more equal level. 
Considering the role that early childhood 
education plays in a child’s performance 
in primary school and in later stages of 
educational life, children from low-income 
families with limited education have a 
significant disadvantage even as they 
start school.  Expanded opportunities for 
early childhood education are therefore a 
key component of an education system 
that promotes equal opportunity for all. 
Accordingly the government needs to make 
early childhood education a priority in its 
education investment plans.  The inclusion 
of  5-6 years of age in mandatory schooling 
in the short term would be an effective step 
in expanding the reach of early childhood 
education. The Ministry of Education and 
civil society organizations should plan 
comprehensive public discussions on this 
issue. 
• Another key policy for furthering equal 
opportunity in education is ensuring mini-
mum quality standards in schools. Various 
financial incentives could serve this end. 

37
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
2
Currently, most schools do not have a budget 
to address their needs in a timely manner. 
They have to request services and funds for 
specific items from the Ministry of Education. 
Many school administrations therefore 
choose to collect “donations” from parents in 
order to improve the physical facilities and 
organize social activities in their schools.  If the 
Ministry of Education decentralizes some of its 
budget and provides each school with direct 
funds to ensure a certain level of minimum 
standards in each school, this would help 
both raise and level the quality of education 
across different schools. 
•   The  e-investment   system  is  another 
financial policy instrument that would 
ensure a more equal distribution of public 
investments in the education sector. A 
formula-based 
decision 
making 
system 
for education investments would detach 
investment decisions from political dynamics 
and by depoliticizing investment decisions, 
it would contribute towards improving 
physical facilities and decreasing class 
size in disadvantaged areas. Currently, the 
government is preparing to implement the 
e-investment system. 
•   Equal opportunities to highly disadvan-
taged children and young people require 
targeted strategies.  Regular schools and 
teaching methods do not always adequately 
meet the needs of these disadvantaged 
children and young people, such as working 
children, children with special needs and 
seasonal migrants.  More flexible, diverse and 
adaptable educational approaches have to 
be designed as part of a more comprehensive 
strategy for providing appropriate and quality 
education to all children and young people. 
• Tracking and student selection systems 
between different levels of education play 
an essential role in determining the extent 
to which an education system can present 
equal opportunities to young people from 
all backgrounds. Ongoing reform efforts 
to change the student selection processes 
and having multiple exams at the end of 
each year in secondary school and using 
the cumulative score from these exams as 
the university placement criteria are positive 
signals highlighting the importance of the 
issue.  However, the new selection system 
needs to be followed by steps and improved 
teaching capacities which gradually but 
effectively break the dependence on private 
courses and dershanes. The government 
could also devise systems based on positive 
discrimination for young people, especially 
young women, from low-income areas with 
limited education opportunities.  
•  Finally, financial support for young people 
who cannot make it to the university may 
give them a second chance. So those who are 
already out-of-school may be able to work 
less in order to continue their education. In 
today’s world, the traditional understanding 
of exclusively in-school education is replaced 
by new frameworks such as life-long learning, 
non-formal learning, distance learning, e-
learning and peer training. Benefits offered 
by our digital age can be used more widely 
and effectively when handling out-of-school 
youth’s education. 
2. Improving the education quality at all 
levels is an equal priority which would also 
contribute to the “equal opportunities for all” 
dimension, as stated above. Ensuring young 
people’s access to quality education is essen-
tial if they are to adapt to new and changing 
patterns of life. Each year in the University 
Entrance Examination, the insufficiency of 
the general level of knowledge and skill is 
exposed; for example the correct answers to 
mathematics and geometry questions is just 
above 7 out of 45 on average. Getting rid of 
the memorized learning method and the 
crammed exam agenda will, in the long term, 
create radical and long-lasting changes in the 
Turkish educational system. 

38
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
2
Recent  efforts to change the  curricula for 
a more child-centred and constructivist 
approach  holds potential  for  enhancing 
young people’s capacity to participate 
effectively 
in 
an 
innovative 
economy 
and a democratic society. The successful 
implementation of the curricula changes 
through effective pre and in-service teacher 
training and monitoring systems and the 
ability to make any new changes which 
appear necessary in this field on the basis of 
sound evaluation will be fundamental for the 
fulfilment of its poten tial. Although problems 
are expected to arise during the transition 
period, the educational reforms seem to hold 
significant potential for improving education. 
Obviously the pattern of their  implementation 
will be crucial in terms of their effectiveness. 
3.  More  opportunities are needed for teach-
ers in order to enhance their professional 
skills. In a package of recommendations 
addressing the Turkish Government, the 
education experts propose, in the framework 
of ‘Educational Reform Initiative’66,  that “In 
order to train teachers with the necessary 
tools and skills and to encourage them to 
prepare their students to become democratic 
and contemporary individuals who always 
defend human rights, that years 2008-2012 
be announced as ‘Teachers’ Years’.”67 
Observations made in some of the focus 
group meetings during the preparation of 
this Report also point to the necessity of en-
hancing teachers’ professional development 
and skills. Some teachers also seem to need 
to learn better how to avoid using violence 
and discriminating language against children, 
and how to handle children with special 
needs.
4. It is important to provide smooth transi-
tions between the stages in a young person’s 
life, as well as in the passage between formal 
education and non-formal education, or 
from one academic subject or department 
to another, and always offer second chances. 
A new approach and a new set of values need 
to be adopted to rid the educational system 
of its predominantly pragmatist context, and 
present it as an experience to be also enjoyed 
and appreciated. Meanwhile, awareness and 
consideration should be created in the society 
that there can be worthwhile and estimable 
education outside of the universities too. 
5. Both vocational schools and vocational 
school graduates need more support 
from government, businesses and society 
at large. An effective orientation system 
should be adopted in the educational 
network, beginning with the interaction 
and cooperation between the vocational/
technical schools and the industrial and 
services related businesses in the private 
sector. As a result of this effort, perhaps 
many young people will opt for a rewarding 
vocational education followed by a passage 
to a satisfactory job and the cramming in the 
doorsteps of universities will lessen. 
According to 2005 data, the ratio of students 
who chose to do vocational studies in Turkey 
is 36%. In the existing system, those who 
choose to go to vocational schools are usually 
the academically less inclined, who turn to 
vocational schools because they do not have 
other options. However, a new assessment 
system can be developed which can correctly 
evaluate the talents and eagerness of the 
young people in the fields they study. 
The fact that the ratios for unemployed 
vocational school graduates are high means 
that the interrelation between vocational 
schools and business places should be 
re-considered. Chambers of industry and 
industrial zone administrations can help 
improve the quality of vocational schools by 
renewing and modernizing the educational 
equipments, materials and tools used in these 
schools. Business places will contribute to the 
reduction of the unemployment problem by 

39
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
2
offering internships and later, permanent 
jobs to the students and graduates of 
vocational schools. 
New codes in society should be established 
and encouraged that value professionals 
like computer technicians, tailors, tilers, etc. 
who are good at their job, as important and 
respectable people. Young people expect this 
encouragement from the society, the State, 
the private sector and the media. Financial 
incentives for such vocations may also help.
6. New measures need to be taken 
concerning the functioning of universities. 
Although the number of higher education 
institutions is increasing significantly, and 
intentions to follow policies to improve the 
quality of university education are frequently 
expressed, currently the level of educational 
quality varies from one place to the other and 
from one university to another. Big companies, 
in their job adverts, appeal to the graduates 
of a handful of Turkish universities, especially 
for higher positions; and these are the best-
known, 
highly-regarded, 
well-established 
State universities, and the prestigious private 
foundation universities instructing their 
classes in a foreign language. This shows the 
need to ensure adequate quality across the 
spectrum of existing universities and also 
more particularly with respect to the new 
ones being created. 
7. 
Additional 
resources 
are 
needed. 
Expansion of quantity when not accompanied 
by expansion of quality does not deliver 
positive results. Still, in a country like Turkey 
where there are 12 million young people 
who will be in the working age by 2020, 
both quantity and quality are big challenges. 
Additional resources are required even in 
order to maintain current school participation 
levels. Solving the educational problems and 
issues of the youth of Turkey, and making 
stable and long-lasting ameliorations in this 
area will help young people contribute more 
to the society and will obviously make future 
generations of young people physically and 
psychologically more robust and intellectually 
more  potent.
8. Certification of educational institutions 
at all  levels of education in terms of 
international and EU standards would 
enhance the quality and impact of 
education. This target, already achieved 
by a number of educational institutions in 
Turkey, would both contribute to bringing 
the curricula of  Turkish institutions closer to 
higher standard ones and provide greater 
skills and opportunities to graduates in terms 
of labour market prospects in Turkey and the 
world. 
9. Advanced and extensive ICT endowment 
is essential for an effective contemporary 
education. This needs to be complemented 
by the corresponding teaching required for 
productive use of the system. The ongoing 
efforts deployed in Turkey at present in 
this field need to ensure further extension, 
advances in terms of technology and teaching 
and a capacity for constant upgrading.
In conclusion, young people in Turkey today 
face many challenges to build their capabil-
ities and make good choices. Education will 
make the biggest difference in decreasing 
the negative aspects of these challenges. 
If the quality education of young people is 
guaranteed, not only the youth but also their 
families, their communities and the country 
as a whole would benefit. 

40
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008

Chapter 3
“YOUNG AND HEALTHY” ?  

“A healthy mind can only be found in a healthy body” 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
 Turkish Proverb

43
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
3
CHAPTER 3	 “YOUNG AND HEALTHY”?
3.1.   Neither child nor adult, therefore “nonexistent”!
Adolescents are still children who need to be 
informed, guided and protected just like their 
younger brothers and sisters, and health issues 
are of paramount importance in this context.  A 
World Fit for Children,  the outcome document 
of the 2002 United Nations Special Session 
on Children, acknowledges this when it says 
that: “A world fit for children is one in which … 
all children, including adolescents, have ample 
opportunity to develop their natural capacities 
in a safe and supportive environment.”68
Yet despite their very real issues and concerns, 
Turkish adolescents can easily be overlooked 
by planning and policy-making that tend to 
focus on the needs of younger children. As a 
consequence, the average adolescent child 
can easily fall between cracks in services.
Like their peers throughout the rest of 
the world, Turkish adolescents are caught 
between two worlds where their needs 
and concerns tend to be overshadowed 
by those of younger children and of adults. 
While 17 to 19 year–olds in the latest stage of 
adolescence are frequently viewed as being 
neither child nor adult, in some cases even 11 
to 16 year–olds in the early to middle stages 
can be obliged to forego their childhood to 
assume adult responsibilities. Working to 
support their families either within or outside 
the home, these children remain essentially 
disempowered as individuals in their own 
right.
Health issues of youth are worsened by pover-
ty, deficient life-skills education, traditional 
mores and a general reluctance of families to 
address the issues of identity and adjustment 
that children face during their physical and 
psychological development. These problems 
are sometimes exacerbated by substance 
abuse and violent conflicts within some 
homes or in the school environment.  For many 
young people there are additional concerns 
such as child marriage and the concomitant 
issue of early parenthood, especially in low-
income families. 
A majority of adolescents — particularly 
children in low–income families — need to 
confront seemingly insurmountable prob-
lems while having to deal with dramatic 
physical and psychological changes within 
themselves. Problems of access to quality 
education and health care provisions, insecure 
employment prospects, violent conflict with-
in the home, the school environment and also 
to some extent in the community as well as 
hazardous sexual behaviour, experimentation 
with substance abuse which seems to be-
come a rising danger in latter years can all have 
serious implications for the well–being and 
good health of adolescents in Turkey. For girls 
in rural communities especially, the tradition 
of child marriage and the concomitant issue 
of early parenting present serious obstacles 
to their future well–being and development.

44
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
3
3.2.   What is worse than nonexistence? “Being a nonexistent young woman”
The situation of adolescents in Turkey is 
complicated by gender disparities that 
still reflect and emphasise frequently the 
traditional preference of men and boys over 
women and girls. The unpredictable temper 
of adolescents struggling with the profound 
physical and psychological changes typical 
of their age is acknowledged in young males 
as delikanlılar or crazy bloods, for instance, 
while girls of similar age are not indulged 
with the same understanding. Although this 
double–standard is common in societies 
the world over, the very different attitudes 
towards adolescents, depending as they do 
upon gender, set a precedent for gender 
discrimination which pervades almost every 
aspect of their adult life.
In fact, socially conservative attitudes to gen-
der, partly associated with some traditional 
characteristics, lead in a still unduly large 
proportion of instances to the exclusion of 
women from equal participation in public 
and private life. This constitutes a very seri-
ous problem also in terms of Turkey’s further 
advances toward higher development levels. 
Unsurprisingly, this exclusion begins at the 
earliest stage when girls enjoy progressively 
less advantages in educational life than their 
brothers and other male peers. While roughly 
7% of girls and boys attended pre–school in 
2001, there were gender gaps of 8% in pri-
mary education and 17% in secondary edu-
cation that same year.69 In 2007, a little more 
than 16% of girls and boys attend pre-school 
education, and the gender gap in primary 
education decreased down to 4% and 8% in 
secondary education. These differences are 
still considerably wide.
The gender  gap in education  becomes 
marked during the adolescent phase when 
significant numbers of girls drop out of school 
after primary education or even earlier after 
the first five   years and it  continues to affect 
virtually every aspect of  their adolescent and 
adult health. This is especially the case in low–
income areas where disparities in girls’ and 
boys’ enrolment in primary education are more 
pronounced. There are large efforts towards 
alleviating this situation. The Government is 
conducting a campaign titled “Come on Girls, 
You are Going to School”.  NGOs such as the 
‘Association for Supporting Contemporary 
Life’ are among the pioneers and major actors 
of these efforts. Women who do not attend 
secondary  school or further education tend 
to have at least two more children than their 
more educated peers. Among those who 
have little or no primary education, 15% give 
birth between the ages of 15 and 19 years 
compared to 3% of their peers who finish 
high school. The situation of adolescent girls 
is showing improvements in this respect: Of 
those who had begun childbearing at the 
time of the last Turkey Demographic and 
Health Survey in 2003 (TDHS), the percentage 
had dropped from 10% in 1998 to 8% — 2% of 
whom were pregnant with their first child.70
The health hazards of early pregnancy that 
adolescent girls endure as a consequence of 
marrying before they have matured physically 
are of particular concern not only for the 
girls themselves but also for the subsequent 
generation. Poorly educated and uneducated 
mothers are  unable, as the primary care–
givers in their households, to provide 
adequate nutrition and health care to their 
growing families. At the same time they suffer 
the double bind of uncontrolled reproduction 
which tightens the bonds of poverty and 
increases health risks such as malnutrition, 
disability and restricted development. The 
findings of the TDHS emphasise the adverse 
effects of child marriage on adolescent girls 
and their families by returning consistently 
poorer indicators for routine immunisation, 
stunted growth, disability, chronic illness and 
the recursive problem of lower educational 

45
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
3
is compromised in any way. The same fear 
is at the root of the issue of honour killings 
— a persistent threat to adolescent girls and 
young and adult women alike especially in 
rural areas where hundreds of  Turkish wom-
en die each year by way of reparation for their 
family’s allegedly damaged reputation.72
As in other parts of the world, domestic 
violence is a widespread offence in Turkey 
with similar roots in issues of honour and 
tradition that affects young girls who lack 
the maturity and self–assertion necessary 
to develop as rounded individuals with the 
capacity to raise their families. Disturbingly, in 
its report published in 2003 the TDHS found 
that 63% of girls between 15 and 19 years of 
age felt that their husbands would be justified 
performance 
and 
attainment 
in 
their 
children.71 
Although the law prohibits children from 
marrying, families — particularly those 
in remote rural areas — have sufficient 
leeway to give their adolescent daughters 
in marriage, owing to inadequate birth 
registration procedures. Furthermore many 
rural communities consider an imam nikah 
or religious ceremony sufficient to formalise 
a union. As a result many marriages remain 
officially unregistered and essentially invisible 
to the State. 
In many cases child marriage is motivated 
to a considerable extent by fear that a girl’s 
family honour will be ruined if her virtue 
In Turkey, murder in the name of honour is the most severe type of violence against women. According to an interview with Professor 
Ahsen Şirin of Ege University by an online news bulletin,73 ‘Turkish Police has recorded 1,091 honour killings in the last five years. And 
many of the honour killings are not reported to police; are instead shown as suicide etc…’ 
As stated in the report produced by UNFPA and UNDP in 2005, entitled “The dynamics of Honour Killings in Turkey”, the younger generation 
is actually more accepting and supportive of killing in the name of honour than their elders. This conclusion is further reinforced by 
recent findings that 63% of the young women aged 15-19 expect to be beaten as part of their married life (TDHS, 2003).74 These 
findings show that the young generation needs to be trained well and thoroughly for combating violence against women.
In recent years government efforts to combat violence against women have gained momentum thanks to the legislative changes. 
Since the 1990s, Turkey’s legislation regarding violence against women has undergone significant transformations. The endorsement 
of the Law for the Protection of the Family (1998) and amendments in the Civil Law (2001) and the Penal Code (2004) all work to further 
criminalize violence against women and have increased the penalties for honour crimes. 
Apart from the above-mentioned institutional setup, there is increased commitment on the part of the Turkish Government to address 
the issue in more depth. In May 2005 an “Investigation Commission for determining the causes of violence against women and children/
honour crimes” was established under the National Assembly. This commission’s Parliamentary Report led to the issuing of a Prime 
Ministerial circular on “Measures to Prevent Violent Acts against Women and Children, and Crimes in the Name of Honour and Custom” 
which was published in the Official Gazette in July 2006. The circular addresses the recommendations voiced in the Parliamentary 
Report.
Since 2005, the Ministry of Interior has also been proactive in combating violence against women/honour crimes by issuing circulars and 
initiating training for its personnel. In 2005 the Ministry of Interior, Security General Directorate issued a “Circular on the Implementation 
of the Family Protection Law (Number 4320)” for the action of 81 Governorships of Turkey. Following the above-mentioned Prime 
Ministerial Circular on the Crimes in the Name of Honour and Custom”, the Ministry of Interior Security General Directorate issued 
another circular to 81 Governorships, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of National Education, Gendarmerie Headquarters, 
General Directorate of Social Services and Child Protection Agency and Turkish Republic Prime Ministry Directorate General on the 
Status of Women regarding  the “Coordination of the measures taken to prevent custom and honour killings”. 
by UNFPA Turkey Office
Special Contribution    Victims of honour killings: Do we think of them as ‘youth’ at all ? 

46
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
3
gender discrimination and nine women out 
of ten declare that beating cannot have any 
justification whatsoever.76 Although such a 
large improvement cannot be expected in 
such a relatively short period, a significant 
increase in awareness is observed and it 
can partly be attributed to actions triggered 
by the intensive work of Turkey’s women’s 
movement  in this direction as argued by the 
authors. 
Young people are given to experimentation 
and risky behaviour in the transition from 
childhood to adulthood as they struggle to 
resolve issues of identity. However, the risks of 
unprotected sex and drug and alcohol abuse 
to adolescent health and development, 
as well as the enormous costs in terms of 
public health and individual human suffering, 
stem as much from the prevailing attitudes 
of society as they do from the behaviour of 
the young people themselves. The necessity 
for investment in adolescent health — and 
the provision of life–skills based education 
in particular — needs to be explored more. 
However, policy makers, service providers 
and parents are often reluctant to accept 
that this is the case, preferring to rely very 
largely on more traditional means of censure 
as a potentially moderating influence on 
adolescent behaviour.
Sexual  autonomy in Turkey is quite 
restricted.  In 2003, the TDHS indicated that 
“In Turkey, marriage is very important from a 
demographic perspective, because, besides 
being prevalent throughout the country, 
almost all births occur within marriage. 
Therefore, age at first marriage is a significant 
indicator since it represents the onset of a 
woman’s exposure to the risk of pregnancy.”77
Particularly in rural areas, adolescents do not 
have much adequate opportunity to open 
3.3.    Truth about sex and drugs or “the good old ways of learning” about them?  
sensitive issues of sexuality, drug and alcohol 
abuse in a free and unbiased manner with 
their parents, guardians or teachers. As in 
most societies where especially rural socio-
economic characteristics are still relatively 
strong, these subjects tend to be viewed as 
great many of the average Turkish household. 
While in urban families and schools these 
issues are becoming progressively more 
open to debate, a very large part of rural 
communities continue to be wary of what 
they consider to be essentially matters of 
taboo.
In this context, access to life-skills education 
including communication and negotiation 
skills, as well as information on HIV/AIDS 
and methods of protection against infection 
remains dangerously limited for many young 
people. Many children, especially those in 
the late stages of adolescence, remain more 
or less ignorant of the health implications of 
risky behaviour as they approach maturity.
Data on levels of awareness of HIV/AIDS is both 
vague and incomplete but general awareness 
would appear to be quite low since records 
show an uncharacteristically minimal number 
of infections in comparison with other 
countries in the Central and Eastern Europe 
and Commonwealth of Independent States 
region. The number of HIV/AIDS infections 
reported since 1985 is low at 2,254 cases 
in beating them for at least one of five reasons 
specified in the survey. The most common 
response in that age group was from 52% who 
accepted that arguing with their husbands 
would be sufficient justification for violence.75 
On the other hand, encouragingly, according 
to a very recent research work based on both 
quantitative and qualitative findings by Ayşe 
Gül Altınay and Yeşim Arat, the majority of 
women stand clearly against violence and 

47
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
3
but the actual figure is believed to be much 
higher.78 The TDHS reports that awareness of 
AIDS is high, yet levels of knowledge on how 
to protect oneself from sexually transmitted 
diseases (STDs) and HIV/AIDS remain very low. 
Of women who were questioned on methods 
of avoiding HIV/AIDS, 31% did not even know 
of AIDs or that it can be avoided and only 22% 
understood that condoms offer protection. 
In general, older married women were more 
aware of HIV/AIDS than younger women.79 
Unfortunately the TDHS was not designed to 
determine what men and boys understand 
of the issue, so a thorough assessment of the 
situation in Turkey is not possible without 
an accurate sample that reflects levels of 
knowledge of both genders. 
Given that the TDHS sample group is 
composed of women between the ages of 
15 and 49, the responses indicate a degree 
of ignorance of the issue amongst mothers 
which would imply that adolescents have to 
find out about these important reproductive 
health issues elsewhere. In light of this, it is fair 
to assume that the issue of adequate life-skills 
education for young people becomes more 
urgent with each passing day. 
During the past few years, strategies to 
address adolescent health needs including 
comprehensive life-skills based education 
have been put in place. HIV/AIDS education 
has been included in the new primary school 
curriculum for grades 6-8 and the Ministry 
Turkey’s position as an economic and cultural entity between the Central and Eastern Europe/Commonwealth of Independent States 
(CEE/CIS) region, Asia and the Middle East has changed greatly during the past decade. Newly opened borders and the freer movement 
of travel and communications mean that the youth of this country are exposed to cultural influences of other societies which are very 
new and exciting but, in some cases, include potentially dangerous elements. The ready availability of illegal drugs means that many 
young people have unprecedented opportunities to experiment with them. The heavy traffic of sex workers from the CEE/CIS region in 
Turkey’s major urban centres and coastal resorts also raises the question of HIV/AIDS awareness and protection.
The Ministry of National Education (MoNE), has developed My Family, a youth–oriented training programme with a focus on 
communication and life skills training for both the youth and their parents. My Family seeks to address the health hazards of unprotected 
sexual contact and problems of addiction within the context of parent–child communication where they have often been viewed as 
inappropriate and even dangerous topics to even raise within the family environment. Breaking the taboo nature of these issues and 
opening them for positive discussion between youth and their parents is one of the primary aims of the training offered to families with 
adolescent children. 
The package, developed with the technical support of UNICEF and funding from the European Union, includes parental counselling 
and peer education for adolescents between the ages of 17 and 19 in vulnerable families in urban areas, and also helps to implement 
catch-up education for adolescents who are out of school or at risk of coming in contact with the law. 
My Family Programme follows the ‘pyramid training’ strategy of FACT 80whereby trained parents are expected to share their knowledge 
on parenting with at least two other relatives or close friends. The participation of adolescents in the development of My Family has been 
invaluable to the peer training content of the package.
All partners in the My Family package agree that it is essential to encourage greater involvement of fathers in the parenting training 
sessions. Gender roles are quite strictly defined by tradition in Turkey and child rearing is very much seen as the job of mothers while 
fathers take a lower key role in the development of especially very young children. The team behind My Family considers nation–wide 
acceptance and use of good child rearing practices to be of paramount importance in changing this attitude.
Since military service is mandatory for all young men in Turkey, the large numbers of newly married and expectant fathers in the army 
service benefiting from the core version of this programme will be a significant step forward for young families. Although few will be 
able to immediately practice the lessons learned in the core modules — being out of regular contact with their families — it is expected 
that many will have a more open attitude to good child rearing practices by the time they complete their military service. It is hoped 
that they may even be prepared to revisit My Family training in civil life.
BOX 3.1         MY FAMILY PROGRAMME 

48
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
3
disorders, osteoporosis, diabetes mellitus, 
and oral and dental problems.  Strikingly, 
one third of cancer diseases seen in people 
are connected with smoking. Half of smokers 
lose their lives due to these diseases. More 
strikingly, smoking is held responsible for one 
third of all deaths in the world. One person 
every eight seconds dies in the world due 
to smoking and in Turkey one person in six 
minutes dies for the same reason. One billion 
people will die throughout this century again 
due to smoking and the majority of them are 
young people! In order to be protected from 
health problems, the habit of smoking should 
be stopped and measures must be taken 
against smoking. 
of National Education (MoNE) is providing 
training with the support of UNICEF on 
inter–familial communication and conflict 
resolution to families with children between 
the ages of 7 and 19.  Information on sexual 
questions has also started to be given more 
extensively in schools.
Research shows that people usually start 
smoking at the age of 13, and again usually 
under the influence of their friends. Smoking 
leads to a series of serious health problems, 
which is a fact proven in many studies and 
convincing data. Smoking causes coronary 
cardiac diseases, high blood pressure, cancer, 
chronic lung diseases, neurological and mental 
Public spending on health as a percentage of 
GDP in Turkey has improved from 2002, when 
it was 4.7% of GDP, to 2004 when it was about 
5.2% of GDP.  However, per capita public 
expenditure on preventive health care is  low-
er than any other OECD country,  represent-
ing 10% of the average among OECD coun-
tries and the European Union (EU) and it actu-
ally fell from US$ 5.00 to US$ 4.80 between 
1999 and 2003.81 Private health service 
expenditures through the social security 
institutions 
are 
becoming 
increasingly 
important in the more urbanised parts of the 
country. However, these are less relevant to 
the situation of most low–income families 
and their children. Since many adolescent 
and adult employees work in informal and 
irregular employment where social security 
insurance is not provided, they are not insured 
directly in connection with their work. As 
around 95% of the population is covered by 
health insurance most of them benefit from 
health insurance through their parents or the 
green card which has been issued to a total 
of 14 million persons. But these coverages 
have a narrower scope and can exclude such 
3.4.   Health care
illnesses as those directly linked to their work.  
On the other hand, households of every 
income bracket tend to rely on private 
expenditures on over-the-counter medicines 
and pharmaceuticals as their primary source 
of medical care, the richest income bracket 
spends much more. The difference is that low–
income families tend to seek health care with 
considerable  reluctance because they tend 
to associate health care with expenditures 
they are unable to afford.
Social protection public expenditure to GDP 
has increased from 8.6% of GDP in 2002 to 9% 
in 2004.  Nevertheless the allocation for social 
protection expenditures in Turkey is currently 
still less than half the 2003 average within 
the EU.82 Public expenditure on health could 
rise during the course of the next few years 
owing to the Government’s plan to transform 
the Green Card scheme of free health care for 
the poor into a component of the Universal 
Health Insurance. According to the new 
bill on health, the following is foreseen: 
The expanded system of universal health 

49
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
3
Health that will hopefully improve access to 
health services will be the establishment of 
the Universal Health Insurance Fund and the 
introduction of family medicine as a basis for 
the provision of primary health care.83
The quite large share of informal labour in 
the economy has severe implications for 
young people seeking to establish a secure 
livelihood and independence from their 
parents’ households. Health conditions of 
such high numbers of the population that 
are not engaged in formal labour and who 
are not sufficiently covered or in some cases 
not  at all covered by health insurance are 
negatively affected. 
insurance will provide every citizen with a 
general health insurance number and access 
to health care with only some participation fee 
for medicines and also for hospital treatment. 
The latter will be in general very small but can 
also become somewhat higher in accordance 
with the alternatives chosen. The premiums 
of those who are very poor will be paid by the 
state. 
It is hoped that the Ministry of Health’s 
Transformation in Health programme will 
narrow the gap in access to quality health 
services between Turkey and other middle 
income EU accession countries. Two of 
the major objectives of Transformation in 
The absence of accurate data on health, 
water and sanitation and education has 
been recognised as one the most significant 
obstacles to strategies for the reduction and 
prevention of problems facing children and 
young people in Turkey for some time.
The Ministry of Interior General Directorate of 
Provincial Administration, with the support 
of the Turkish Statistical Institute (TURKSTAT) 
has produced a set of indicators to monitor 
the state of children at every stage of devel-
opment from birth to maturity in Turkey. One 
of the most significant developments under 
the umbrella of the EU funded Children First 
project, the 25 Quality of Life Indicators (25 
QLI) have been modelled on the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) and EU social 
3.5.    Quality of Life Indicators
inclusion indicators on children. A number 
of the indicators covering net enrolment in 
education, extended education, suicide and 
criminal conviction, abuse, homelessness, 
institutional protection, social security cover-
age, water and sanitation will be particularly 
relevant to the situation of adolescents.
Much like the MDG and EU models, the 
25 QLI are interrelated: an improvement in 
one indicator will have a knock–on effect of 
improvements in others — and all data will 
be disaggregated by gender. TURKSTAT have 
also produced a manual setting out the exact 
definition, means of calculation and source 
of data for each indicator. Annex Five includes 
the ‘25 Quality of Life Indicators.’
3.6.    For a healthier generation of youth 
1. A special focus on young people’s health 
is needed. As stated above, health issues of 
youth are worsened by poverty, deficient 
life-skills education, traditional mores and a 
widespread reluctance of families to address 
the issues of identity and adjustment that 
children face during their physical and 
psychological development. 
The necessity for investment in adolescent 
health — and the provision of life–skills 
based education in particular — needs to be 

50
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Special Contribution     Risks youth face in labour life
explored more. The projects realized with the 
cooperation of the Ministry of Health, NGOs 
and international organizations should be di-
versified. The peer training that is implement-
ed with success should be expanded. 
2. The society, including the young 
generation, needs to be trained well and 
thoroughly for combating violence against 
women.  Public awareness campaigns need to 
be organized for combating violence against 
women and to prevent early marriages and 
honour killings. Unofficial marriages which are 
in fact banned by law should not be condoned 
. Nationwide advocacy campaigns should be 
organized to prevent such marriages, violence 
against women and honour killings.  
Almost all countries apply compulsory education to enable their young population to attend school. The period of compulsory education 
plays a leading role in determining the minimum age limit for the young to join the labour life. For example, a child who starts school at 
the age of seven and receives an eight-year compulsory education can join labour life at the age of 15. A reason for young people to join 
labour life, especially in developing countries, is the family’s concern for their youngster to have an occupation. Yet, sometimes children 
and young people are employed without being paid for the sake of learning a vocation, a fact which may lead to abuse of the child’s 
labour and even sexual abuse. In other aspects, too, labour life is not risk-free for young workers: 
•	
Most of the tools and machines at a workplace have a weight that can only be handled by adults. The size of many of these 
machinery is bigger than the size of young workers, so they cannot control such devices. This leads to low production, while 
increasing the likelihood of accidents.
•	
The physical strength of young people is less than that of adults and some negative influences (malnutrition and being subjected 
to negative environmental factors) in the adolescent period could lead to problems in terms of growth and development of 
children. For example, a young worker’s physical development can be impeded at a work that demands physical activity, such 
as carrying heavy objects.
•	
Several factors in labour life can negatively affect young people’s mental development as well. For example, a young worker 
who is insulted and even subjected to physical abuse by his/her employer may inevitably experience mental problems.
•	
Young people, by definition, are not experienced workers, therefore they may not be able to correctly assess the circumstances 
and risks in their work environment. This may eventually lead to risky behaviours.
•	
The perception of danger and the concept of risk are not sufficiently developed in young people. A young worker who is 
unaware of the risk concept is very likely to have accidents.
•	
Young workers are more affected by negative physical and chemical environmental factors than adults. A physical factor may be 
carrying heavy loads, while the presence of chemical substances at a workplace could metabolically harm young workers.  
•	
Young workers who start work at very early ages are deprived of the chances of playing games and spending time with their 
friends. Under these circumstances, children who are enthusiastic about toys and games, will use every opportunity to play, 
including playing with work tools, which may lead to serious accidents. 
by Professor Nazmi Bilir, Hacettepe University
3. Discussing drug use and sexuality should 
not be regarded as a taboo, and informing 
and guiding youth in this context are es-
sential. Indeed, a strongly hierarchic relation 
among family members, which is a wide-
spread occurrence, is likely to cause issues like 
sexuality to be left in the dark. Therefore, in or-
der to break this taboo, education concerning 
sex should be given to youth in classrooms 
beyond the information already provided 
within the context of health and hygiene. 
Officials of the Ankara Alcohol and Substance 
Addiction Treatment and Training Centre 
(AMATEM) shared with the researchers of this 
Report at a meeting, the fact that none of the 
municipalities and private sector companies 

51
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
3
that were visited while seeking financing 
were willing to provide help. Officials said 
that the municipality and private company 
representatives stated that they did not want 
their names to appear in a project related to 
drugs. Those companies and municipalities 
that provide services to youth in particular or 
market their product brands to young people 
should be more open-minded, so that crucial 
steps can be taken with their contribution. 
Many important projects cannot be realized 
and are waiting on shelves due to lack of 
financing.84 Regarding the smoking issue, 
for example, programmes targeting children 
need to be increased and the number of non-
smoking public places should be extended. 
4. The issue of social security for young 
people needs to be solved. Stricter measures 
are needed to prevent young people from 
working without or with insufficient social 
security. 
5. Child labour should be eradicated. 
Children and young people are affected twice 
as much by job risks compared to adults. This 
also constitutes a serious health matter as 
explained in the Special Contribution Box in this 
section.  Children’s and young people’s rights 
in labour life in Turkey are safeguarded under 
the Constitution and several regulations. The 
Child Protection Law also includes measures 
regarding child labour issues. Turkey is also 
conforming to the core ILO Convention on 
the matter. 
Despite all the measures, young people and 
children are still employed and often exploit-
ed throughout the world. In order to avoid 
this, efforts are exerted at the national and in-
ternational levels with the guidance of the In-
ternational Labour Organization. For example, 
an international programme was launched 
in 1992 to end child labour (International 
Programme on Elimination of Child Labour). 
Under this programme, six countries, namely 
Turkey, Brazil, Indonesia, India, Kenya and 
Thailand, were engaged in a number of ac-
tivities to search social and economic reasons 
for child labour and its health dimensions. 
Turkey showed considerable success in this 
programme. The programme was later broad-
ened to cover 87 countries worldwide. Efforts 
to eradicate child labour in the whole world 
should continue without wavering. Turkey, 
whose legal framework relating to child la-
bour is strong has made serious efforts which 
have brought noticeable improvements in 
implementation in this field as reflected in 
the Special Contribution Box in Chapter Four 
entitled “Child Labour is decreasing in Turkey” 
by ILO/Turkey and UNICEF/Turkey. However 
further efforts are still needed in this critical 
field until the complete eradication of child 
labour. 

52
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008

Chapter 4
YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT 

“You complete 16 years of education, go through all that 
but cannot find a job. How can we think straight? To 
do that one has to have decent living conditions. One’s 
stomach must be full. You cannot get a break and start 
producing projects and ideas to improve your country. 
First, one must have a job.” 
A female secondary school graduate from İzmir

55
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
4
CHAPTER 4	 YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT
4.1.   Strong economic growth, weaker  Human Development
This chapter contextualizes and frames the 
challenges of youth with an unemployment 
focus in the broader economic and social 
context of Turkey. 
One can first note that in its present stage of 
demographic and labour market transition, 
Turkey faces some developmental challenges 
which have a number of unique features 
compared to the countries in Turkey’s income 
group. This mainly stems from an unusually 
high share of agricultural employment --
above 40% for a long period-- which was to 
an important extent a result of the decades-
long agricultural subsidies that dampened 
the rural-urban population transition. Average 
education levels remained very low as well: 
Five years for many decades, six years only 
recently. The level is slowly rising thanks to an 
increasing urban population. 
Some of the main particularities of the Turkish 
labour market are as follows. Briefly,  “all” labour 
force participation rates, by education group, 
for both genders have been falling in Turkey, 
only to level for secondary school and above 
in recent years (see Figure 4.1). Although the 
overall participation rate may keep falling as 
a result, in a few years, the overall labour force 
participation rates (LFPR) for men and women 
may and are likely to turn upwards, even if the 
LFPR keeps falling across education groups! 
The reason is that by moving up on the 
education ladder, one joins another group of 
labour force participants who are at a higher 
plateau but at a declining slope nevertheless. 
For example, the LFPR of women who are 
university graduates are two or three times 
higher than the LFPR of lower education 
groups. The overall LFPR may start moving up 
in a few years, even when it declines for every 
education level, at varying rates. 
At the upper end of the education spectrum, 
employment ratios are higher and, the 
urban unemployment  rates slightly above 
Figure 4.1.   Labour force participation rates by education in Turkey (TURKSTAT data)

56
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
4
unemployment appears to remain stuck not 
only for the young, but also for the whole 
labour force. However, the stubborn urban 
unemployment rate is twice as high for young 
secondary school and university graduates 
than the urban average. Active labour market 
policies and lifelong learning policies that 
are to be designed for new entrants on the 
one hand and for older unemployed workers 
on the other hand have to be contextually 
different. If one loses a new entrant to the 
long-term unemployed pool, labour market 
segmentation is inevitable. Incidentally, in the 
global context, the ILO youth employment 
report puts the probability of a young person 
being unemployed in the world as three times 
higher than that of an adult. In Turkey, the 
corresponding figure is about two. However, 
this does not mean that the situation is so 
much better.  
The Turkish economy has grown rapidly after 
the big economic crisis in 2001, averaging 
about 7.5%  annually in the 2002 to 2006 
period. Its recent growth performance has 
been the most powerful one in the OECD 
as mentioned above. Annual consumer 
inflation in 2007 registered 8.4%. The single 
digit inflation figure is a new economic 
phenomenon for the young generation in 
Turkey. The Turkish economy is now on the 
those  of the lower educational levels. The 
latter difference is due to the very high 
female unemployment rates in this category. 
In Turkey, out of every 100 young urban 
university graduate women in 2006, 50 
worked, 20 were unemployed, and 30 did 
not participate in the labour force. Thus the 
unemployment rate was just under 30%. In 
lower educational levels in urban areas, 25 
out of 100 young women were in the labour 
force and 75 did not participate in it! This 
reflects the dimension of the participation 
problem for women.
 To what extent are these issues pertinent for 
youth? After all, gender differences in labour 
force participation rates affect less the young 
than the older segments of the population, 
largely because the young are more educated. 
Gender differences in participation are much 
wider at lower levels of education. In fact, 
the main feature, which is particular to the 
youth, is the urban youth unemployment 
rate. All urban young unemployment rates 
by education have been higher than the 
labour market average for that education 
group. The case for young women has been 
illustrated immediately below.  Although the 
lack of job creation is a general phenomenon 
in the Turkish labour market, the youth has 
thus been particularly affected. It is true that, 
Figure 4.2.     Male-female urban unemployment rates by education (TURKSTAT data)

57
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
4
verge of becoming the  seventeenth largest 
in the world with a GDP of about US$ 500 
billion. (This Report was finalised before 
Turkey’s 2008 National Income Series were 
released.) According to the results of the 
2007 Population Census, per capita income is 
expected to reach approximately US$ 7,000. 
Exports exceeded US$ 85 billion in 2006 and 
reached US$ 105 billion in 2007. Now that 
Turkey has better macro-economic stability 
compared to the volatile decades from 1970s 
to 1990s and finally attracts large amounts of 
direct foreign investment, one would have 
expected to see more first time jobholders.
However, Turkey’s recent strong economic 
growth has not translated itself into a 
matching 
performance 
in 
employment 
creation. Unemployment anxiety has re-
placed high inflation anxiety as the number 
one economic problem in public opinion 
polls today. Finding a decent, good job is what 
young people want most in Turkey. There is a 
widespread perception of the insufficiency of 
employment opportunities, especially for the 
youth. In the State of Youth Survey, 49.1% of 
the youth said “a good job” is what they most 
want, followed by “esteem” (18.1%) and “love” 
(only 16.9%). 
In the case of employment, there has been an 
almost total lack of net job formation between 
2002 and 2004 despite economic growth. In 
the last decades, slow employment increase 
relative to working age population growth, 
has been a persistent problem. This general 
problem has particular structural aspects 
that affect the urban young population. Here 
follows a corresponding example. Young 
unskilled men are very largely dominant 
in the construction sector employment 
relative to the general labour force. Young 
unskilled women are clearly very largely 
overrepresented in the clothing and textile 
industry. Many do not have social security 
coverage, especially direct social insurance. 
A large proportion of the unskilled youth 
component of recent rural-urban migrants 
goes into these two sectors depending 
on their gender.86 This phenomenon has 
particular policy implications concerning 
youth because these two sectors are at the 
same time among those where informal 
employment is the most widespread. This 
situation alone illustrates the complex nature 
and very considerable dimension of the youth 
employment issue. 
What follows is a sketch of the main specific 
challenges and opportunities related to 
youth employment. It is expected that it will 
reflect adequately the urgency of the youth 
employment-creation problem in Turkey. 
Very few of the newly graduates have any work or internship experience. As the findings of the World Bank’s 
2006 Turkey Labour Force Study also show, the biggest disadvantage of young people in finding jobs is their 
youth. When asked for the most important reason why they cannot find jobs, in the State of Youth Survey, 29.9% 
of the young people answered, “being young and inexperienced”. Among those who are seeking jobs, the least-
experienced who will enter the labour force for the first time, are at an even bigger disadvantage; they constitute 
40% of the total number of unemployed young people. 
Businesses are not willing to give prior training to their prospective workers; they want their employees to start 
work immediately. For example, the vocational-school-graduate Kemal, who works at a factory in Lüleburgaz, 
said, “The private sector companies don’t bother. It is a waste of time for them. They want the employee to be already 
fully equipped to get the job going right away.”85 On-the-job training carries the risk of wasting time, as well as 
the probability of the well-trained employee asking for higher wages or transferring to another company. 
Therefore, employers usually prefer to work with already trained or experienced personnel, rather than giving 
inexperienced people a chance.
BOX. 4.1.        “YOUNG” AND “INEXPERIENCED” ARE USED ALMOST SYNONYMOUSLY

58
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
4
In some cases, economic recovery comes 
without new jobs, especially in the emerging 
markets, because of productivity increases. 
During the period 1980-2002, annual real GNP 
growth in Turkey averaged about 4%, while 
the average employment growth rate was 
0.8%. Even in the more recent period of 2002-
2006 when the average economic growth rate 
has been 7.5%, and investment increased by 
14.2% on average, productivity rose to a large 
extent because of imported new machinery 
alongside some efficiency gains, and the 
unemployment rate has stubbornly remained 
unchanged around 10%, falling only slightly 
from 10.3% in 2002 to 9.9% in 2006. The 
employment growth rate in the same period 
was again also 0.8%.87 
Fast growth with low employment means 
fast productivity growth. This opportunity is 
expected to eventually bring about higher 
wages, and consequently more employment 
generation in the future. Indeed, Turkey is now 
much more productive than it was previously; 
there has been a trend break in productivity 
growth. Employment generation might be 
expected to follow with some lag along with 
wage increases. 
On the other hand, the long-term poor 
employment growth performance in the past 
decades is associated with the transformation 
of the employment structure away from 
agriculture, which has gathered pace recently. 
The two most recent economic programmes, 
especially the 2001 one, have replaced the 
previous undifferentiating forms of general 
agricultural subsidies with more targeted 
instruments. 
Agricultural 
employment 
dropped from around 8.1 million in 2001 to 
just over 6 million in 2006. In the same period, 
non-agricultural employment increased by 
an average of 3.9% per year and industrial 
employment by 3.1% per year. Since many 
people leave agriculture, the net overall 
employment creation rate remains low.  
From 2003 to 2006, the number of unemployed 
remained level despite the increase in the 
working age population of around four 
million, which makes for an increase of one 
million people a year. During the same period, 
2.3 million non-agricultural jobs were cre-
ated (575 thousand a year). Net agricultural 
job losses have been 330 thousand per year, 
which makes net job creation 245 thousand 
a year between 2003 and 2006. This is 
one quarter of the annual increase in the 
working age population! Had the labour-
force participation rates not been falling, 
unemployment rates, and especially the 
youth unemployment rate, would have shot 
up. The population increase in the working 
age bracket comes from the young cohort.    
Assuming that the overall unemployment 
rate of approximately 10% also applies to 
these new entrants instead of the higher non-
agricultural unemployment rate of 12.6%, 
these figures imply that, out of the potential 
4 million, 2.22 million participated in the 
labour force; labour force participation in this 
period for new entrants is then 55.5%. This 
figure is higher than the overall labour force 
participation rate of 49%, so there has been 
a rise. A 60% participation rate would have 
implied 2.4 million participants with 400,000 
out of work (17% unemployment rate) and a 
70% participation rate – a Lisbon goal - would 
have implied 2.8 million participants with 
800,000 out of work (a 36% unemployment 
rate) in this period for the new entrants. The 
Turkish unemployment rate is not increasing 
partly because of dropouts, many of whom 
are discouraged workers. As also indicated 
in a recent report: “Population growth keeps 
outpacing employment growth in Turkey 
and educated young people have difficulty in 
finding jobs.” (World Bank, 2006, p. iii).  
The brief picture above implies that the 
economy’s labour absorption capacity is 
quite low. Keeping people in the agriculture 

59
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
4
sector is not a solution, however, as gross 
value added per worker in agricultural is less 
than one-third of the rest of the economy, i.e., 
industry and services. This would be a waste 
of resources. Looking at the supply side, the 
economy’s labour absorption capacity is 
connected to the level of human capital. The 
average years of schooling in Turkey is still less 
than six years (twelve now in South Korea, 
both countries had similar per capita incomes 
at the beginning of the 1960’s). Few additional 
jobs are available in low-level services or in 
the construction sector to absorb the influx of 
primary school graduates. Females are even 
less educated; rural females even more so. 
The overall labour force participation rate for 
women in Turkey is the lowest, compare to EU 
countries (25%). The informal economy and 
informal employment are widespread. On the 
demand side, the high tax burden and wage 
Labour conditions are not ideal, to say the least. Employing young workers for only five years and then dismissing 
them because after that period severance payments go higher, or similarly, employing a staff for only 11 months 
in order to avoid the fringe benefits one is entitled to after 12 months, then dismissing and re-admitting to the 
job from scratch, are practices used in a large number of instances by private employers.
Ali from Adana relates, “They hire young people, for example, put them to work for a couple of years. When it is time to 
get a wage increase, they fire them and hire new people. Why? Because they will get paid less and work without social 
security. And what will happen to them?” 
Although not all private companies have the same mentality and in fact, nearly 100 companies have committed 
themselves to the Global Compact in Turkey, low wages and underpayment is widespread. 
The unfavourable conditions in the private sector drive young people, en masse, to the doors of public sector 
establishments. The most important reason why the public sector appears more attractive than the private 
sector is “job security”, or in young people’s own words, it means, “not exploiting and not being exploited”. 
In 2007, 1.5 million young people applied to the ‘Public Service Personnel Selection Exam’ (KPSS). This general 
exam is a prerequisite for jobs in public institutions. Each individual institution determines a specific minimum 
score for hiring its personnel. There are a number of private courses and classes to prepare the applicants for 
KPSS. Teaching posts are also filled according to the results of this exam. Although the establishment of the 
KPSS in 1999 has improved the situation, complaints about some aspects of the system relating to hiring public 
personnel have not disappeared since then, and the process continues with people voicing grievances, even if 
on a smaller scale. There is now for example an “Association for the Wronged Teachers and Education Workers”, 
formed by the graduates of teachers’ colleges whose members claim to have scored good points at KPSS, yet 
were either not appointed to any teaching post or only to temporary positions.
BOX 4.2.         CONDITIONS IN THE WORK PLACE 
overheads are quoted most often as curtailing 
factors. On the supply side, dissolving rural 
populations feed into the informal pool of 
urban labour, since almost all in-migrants are 
low skilled. 
Unemployment and weariness from taking 
exams drive a great many young people to 
desperation. A young, university-graduate 
woman who has been unemployed for nine 
months says, “I’m weary of these exams… 
Enough is enough. The university exam, this 
exam, that exam… I do not believe in these 
exams anymore. I came to believe that the 
purpose of these exams is not to select people 
but to keep their minds busy, unemployed 
people like us.” Employment creation remains 
problematic. 

60
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
4
Turkey  is  likely to continue having employ-
ment creation bottlenecks. The country would 
have to create 13 million new jobs by 2010 to 
reach the Lisbon target of 70% employment 
rate, which, it must be pointed out, constitutes 
a very high target rate indeed!89 
Its current workforce is 25 million. Turkey also 
faces a bottleneck in quality job creation. In 
addition to the factors already mentioned, 
the rapid change toward capital-intensive 
manufacturing production is also having 
an impact. The ongoing transformation 
from labour-intensive modes of production 
to more capital-intensive ones has been 
facilitated by two factors. The first one was 
the big 2001 economic crisis referred to 
earlier. Turkish firms were forced to utilize 
their existing workforce better by investing 
in machinery and equipment from 2002 
onwards... The second was the “China factor”. 
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Chinese 
competition squeezed the profit margins in 
labour-intensive industries. This has hastened 
the shift to capital-intensive manufacturing 
and to services in the surviving firms in 
Turkey. The composition of the Turkish labour 
market is therefore changing. One of the most 
significant problems is that the typical former 
agricultural labourer lacks the educational 
skills that are required of the new workforce. 
Turkey still has a young population. According 
to the latest data, youth between the ages of 
15 to 24 account for about 17% (around 12 
million) of Turkey’s population of about 72 
million in 2007. This situation will change, 
however. Already, the percentages of 0-14 
and 0-19 year-olds are declining. By 2040, 
the only rising proportion of the population 
will belong to the 65 year-olds and above. 
Therefore, 2040 will mark the end of the 
Turkish demographic window of opportunity. 
However, this still represents a very significant 
opportunity at a time when this process has 
4.2.    Employment issues88 
already ended in most of the rest of Europe 
where several countries are beginning 
to enter a phase of labour shortages. As 
proportionately more people can be gainfully 
employed, national income grows faster and 
social security balances become sustainable. 
On the other hand, if the economy cannot 
absorb the influx of potential labour market 
participants, then labour-force participation 
rates will fall and the unemployment rate will 
eventually rise. 
Therefore, youth employment creation is 
critical for development and economic 
stability. The corollary of the continuing 
window of opportunity is that a failure to 
create employment for especially the youth in 
sufficient numbers will lead to most worrying 
levels of high unemployment. In Turkey, 
in 2006, 15-24 year-olds made up 18.5% 
(4.6 million) of the total labour force of 24.8 
million. In contrast, young unemployed make 
up 35% (858 thousand) of the total number 
of unemployed. As already mentioned, in 
Turkey young people are twice more likely to 
be unemployed than the older population. 
The young are also slightly underrepresented 
in employment. They make up 16.7% of the 
total employed.
The increase in employment in the services 
sector is at times higher than the average 
increase in the working age population. The 
service sector can be expected to draw more 
labour force, but at low wages. All depends 
on the pace of agricultural out-migration in 
the near future. In the future, the LFPR will 
go up. This will initially exacerbate the urban 
unemployment problem. The reason is that 
unpaid agricultural family workers initially 
drop out of the labour force in the cities as 
they migrate. Later, more and more of them, 
as they become educated, participate in the 
labour force. This will be true for both young 
males and females. Current non-agricultural 

61
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
4
employment growth rates will not be 
sufficient to absorb this surplus. This problem 
is expected to peak around 2015-2020 before 
demographic pressures start to ease. Hence 
another reason for potent economic and 
social policies ensuring vigorous employment 
creation.
The current situation of young female former 
agricultural workers keeps the unemployment 
rate in check. This is because, having been unpaid 
family workers in agriculture, many women who 
are past formal education age generally stop 
participating in the labour market when they 
move to urban areas. Those women who do 
participate are likely to be employed informally 
in low-paid small-scale manufacturing, services 
or home services like house cleaning. In İstanbul 
and generally  in the northwest, young migrant 
women are likely to find informal employment 
in the textiles and garment industry. They work 
until they get married, after which they usually 
drop out of the labour force.  
At present, the overall participation rate in Turkey 
keeps falling; it is now 48%. In 2006, the urban 
participation rate is lower at 45.5%. Female 
participation is very low at 24.9%. The labour-
force participation rate for youth is 38%.
Consequently, increasing the participation rate is 
both desirable and constitutes a main challenge 
from the viewpoint of creating the conditions for 
a rewarding future for the youth in Turkey.
Non-participation in the labour market and 
policies and practices related to this issue in 
Turkey essentially have a different context and 
scope than the non-agricultural, urbanized 
and formal labour market conditions in EU 
countries. Policy developments and priorities 
of most of the EU countries, although generally 
relevant and valid from a future develop-
ment perspective, are not yet immediately 
applicable, given the demographic and labour 
market situation in Turkey which is at present 
quite different except from countries such as 
Romania or Poland to varying degrees.  Active 
labour market policies (ALMP) and measures 
alone may fail to make a sufficient impact, 
given the high level of informal activity in the 
labour market and the low level of education. 
(The median education level of the workforce 
is six years). Alongside ALMPs, increasing the 
length of compulsory education to 12 years 
(from the current 8 years) may prove more 
beneficial for Turkey. 
Firstly, a longer period of compulsory 
schooling would keep young people out 
of the labour force for a good reason at a 
4.3.   Education and participation in Turkey contrasted with the EU 
critical time until they complete secondary 
education. Secondly, this measure would 
create potentially more employable and 
trainable workers, especially if the education 
system in Turkey, which requires substantive 
improvement, is reformed at the same time. 
Thirdly, more education would increase 
female labour force participation, which 
is a desired objective in itself. Turkey is no 
exception to the principle that tertiary 
(higher) education has the greatest impact 
for women (see Table 4.1). Ercan finds that the 
most significant coefficient for women’s LFPR 
in a cross-country econometric examination 
is the tertiary enrolment rate.90
Women who are secondary school graduates 
are natural candidates for ALMP measures 
because their labour force participation rate 
is only 30.6% (2006). However, Turkey needs 
other concrete and innovative solutions as 
well. These would yield some results in the 
medium term, while the country waits for the 
positive overall labour market results from an 
increase in the education drive.

62
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Table 4.1a.      Non-institutional population91 by education and labour force status (15+ years)
(x1,000 persons)
Population 
Labour Force
Employed
Unempl.
LFPR
Unempl.
rate 
Non-
agricultural 
u. rate 
Employ. 
ratio 
Non-
participants
Male 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Illiterate 
1,026 
415
371
44
40.4%
10.6%
18.7
36.2%
611
Literate, no diploma 
1,341
679
601
78
50.6%
11.5%
17.7
44.8%
662
Primary 
10,376
8,024
7,289
735
77.3%
9.2%
11.6
70.2%
2,352
Junior high and junior voc. 
2,887
2,395
2,151
244
83.0%
10.2%
11.4
74.5%
492
High school 
3,233
2,194
1,947
 247
67.9%
11.3%
12.0
60.2%
1,039
Vocational high 
2,460
1,996
1,812
184
81.1%
9.2%
9.8
73.7%
464
College 
2,395
2,014
1,857
157
84.1%
7.8%
7.9
77.5%
381
Eight-year compulsory 
1,883
581
492
89
30.9%
15.3%
18.1
26.1%
1,302
Total 
25,601
18,298
16,520
1,778
71.5%
9.7%
11.2
64.5%
7,303
Female 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Illiterate 
5,113
828
817
11
16.2%
1.3%
9.2
16.0%
4,285
Literate, no diploma 
2,094
409
392
17
19.5%
4.2%
14.5
18.7%
1,685
Primary 
10,587
2,447
2,283
164
23.1%
6.7%
16.8
21.6%
8,140
Junior high and junior voc. 
1,505
360
305
55
23.9%
15.3%
19.5
20.3%
1,145
High school 
2,351
663
511
152
28.2%
22.9%
25.0
21.7%
1,688
Vocational high 
1,350
500
395
105
37.0%
21.0%
21.9
29.3%
850
College 
1,510
1,054
917
137
69.8%
13.0%
13.1
60.7%
456
Eight-year compulsory 
1,557
219
191
28
14.1%
12.8%
23.5
12.3%
1,338
Total 
26,067
6,480
5,811
669
24.9%
10.3%
17.8
22.3%
19,587
Source:  TURKSTAT-Labour Force Survey (LFS) data (2006). Eight-year compulsory education went into effect in 1997.
Table 4.1b.       Non-institutional population by education and labour force status (15-24 years)
(x1,000 persons)
Population 
Labour Force
Employed
Unemployed
LFPR
Unempl.
rate 
Non-
agricultural 
U. rate 
Employ.
  ratio 
Non-
participants
Male 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Illiterate
95
37
29
8
38.9%
21.6%
25.3
30.5%
58
Literate, no diploma 
336
162
131
31
48.2%
19.1%
22.9
39.0%
174
Primary 
732
623
522
101
85.1%
16.2%
18.5
71.3%
109
Junior high and junior voc. 
605
500
414
86
82.6%
17.2%
19.6
68.4%
105
High school 
1,268
493
382
111
38.9%
22.5%
25.2
30.1%
775
Vocational high 
708
468
388
80
66.1%
17.1%
18.7
54.8%
240
College 
248
192
143
49
77.4%
25.5%
26.2
57.7%
56
Eight-year compulsory 
1,882
580
491
89
30.8%
15.3%
18.0
26.1%
1,302
Total 
5,874
3,055
2,500
555
52.0%
18.2%
20.6
42.6%
2,819
Female 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Illiterate 
367
47
45
2
12.8%
4.3%
11.5
12.3%
320
Literate, no diploma 
600
106
97
9
17.7%
8.5%
15.1
16.2%
494
Primary 
1,390
356
320
36
25.6%
10.1%
23.5
23.0%
1,034
Junior high and junior voc. 
423
120
97
23
28.4%
19.2%
26.7
22.9%
303
High school 
1,112
269
188
81
24.2%
30.1%
34.4
16.9%
843
Vocational high 
505
213
150
63
42.2%
29.6%
31.2
29.7%
292
College 
276
205
145
60
74.3%
29.3%
29.9
52.5%
71
Eight-year compulsory 
1,553
218
190
28
14.0%
12.8%
23.6
12.2%
1,335
Total 
6,226
1,534
1,232
302
24.6%
19.7%
28.3
19.8%
4,692

63
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
Turkish LFPR for men and women are lower 
at each age group compared to Turkey’s 
income level (Ercan). Turkish labour market 
summary data are given in Tables 4.2 and 4.3 
for the overall population and for the youth, 
respectively. For women this difference is 
huge, ten percentage points in the prime-
age group of 25-44, for example.92 That is, 
the current female LFPR of 25% should have 
been 35%. Only by 2030 will Turkish female 
LFPR trajectory have settled to what it should 
be, given the expected trends in per capita 
income and education levels. However, these 
expected trends can be improved. Transitional 
dynamics in the near future will depend 
to a considerable extent on a major policy 
decision regarding compulsory schooling 
and the ability to implement it efficiently. The 
tertiary enrolment rate, which is dependent 
on secondary enrolment rate that depends 
on compulsory schooling requirement, is the 
most significant determinant of a fast increase 
in prime-age female LFPR as indicated above. 
In Turkey, 22.3 million people were employ-
ed in 2006 (see Table 4.2). The Turkish 
employment rate is a low 43.2%. Agricultural 
employment is currently 29% of total employ-
ment; manufacturing employment is 19%; 
construction is 6%; most working people are 
in services. As already mentioned, agricultural 
employment continues to decline after 
the considerable reduction of agricultural 
subsidies that used to keep people on their 
family plots.93 
Among academics in recent years, a con-
sensus figure of 600-700,000 new jobs per 
year emerged as the bottom line to maintain 
the unemployment rate at its present level. 
This has not yet been achieved as explained 
earlier in this chapter. What `helps’ Turkey 
now is the increasing non-participation rate, 
which is what will endanger the long-term 
4.4.     Employment and youth employment trends 
economic growth of Turkey unless effective 
and sustainable qualification and employ-
ment enhancing policies are implemented. 
The 15 to 24 year olds were 18.5% of the Turkish 
labour force in 2006 (see Tables 4.2 and 4.3). 
Employment constitutes a serious problem 
for this group and more so for the educated 
youth, partly because they participate more, 
as discussed earlier. Paradoxically, with 
such low average education levels and the 
demand by employers for better-qualified 
labour force, “educated” young people (in 
the applicable statistical terms: graduates of 
universities or equivalent institutions) have 
higher relative unemployment rates in urban 
Turkey. This is often taken as an alarming 
indicator of tertiary school ‘quality’ and difficult 
conditions for such new entrants, but in view 
of the fact that mostly 23-24 year old youth 
are likely to be in this category and factors 
like an impending military service for men, 
or in general preparation for examinations 
for especially public sector jobs and for post 
graduate studies, this piece of data is not so 
revealing although the problem is very real.
Close to 40% of unemployed young people 
are first-time job seekers. This ratio has been 
constant in the past few years. There is no 
quantitative evidence to suggest that youth 
employment is more affected by low wages 
or temporary contracts, which are general 
labour market problems. The main problem 
in youth employment appears to be the 
general difficulties affecting the transition 
from education to work life.   

64
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
Un-
employment
LFPR   
(%)
 
 
Employment 
rate           
(%)
 
Non-
participants 
 
              
Civilian 
population 
15+        
Civilian 
population 
Labour 
force 
Employment
Under 
employment
Un-
employment 
rate          
(%)
Non-agricultural 
unemployment 
rate (%)
Under 
employment 
rate                  
(%)
 
Year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOTAL 
1990 OCT
55,580
35,711
20,552
19,030
1,485
1,522
57.6
7.4
12.4
53.3
7.2
15,159
1995 OCT
60,864
41,455
22,567
20,912
1,523
1,655
54.4
7.3
11.0
50.4
6.7
18,888
2000 
66,187
46,211
23,078
21,581
1,591
1,497
49.9
6.5
9.3
46.7
6.9
23,133
2005 
71,611
50,826
24,565
22,046
817
2,520
48.3
10.3
13.6
43.4
3.3
26,260
2006 
72,606
51,668
24,776
22,330
890
2,446
48.0
9.9
12.6
43.2
3.6
26,892
MALE
1990 OCT
27,803
17,593
14,165
13,128
1,357
1,037
80.5
7.3
10.1
74.6
9.6
3,428
1995 OCT
30,407
20,528
16,078
14,935
1,340
1,143
78.3
7.1
9.0
72.8
8.3
4,450
2000 
33,058  
22,916  
16,890
15,780 
1,416 
1,111 
73.7
6.6
8.4
68.9
8.4
6,025
2005 
35,747
25,209
18,213
16,346
705
1,867
72.2
10.3
12.4
64.8
3.9
6,996
2006 
36,214
25,601
18,297
16,520
770
1,777
71.5
9.7
11.3
64.5
4.2
7,304
FEMALE
1990 OCT
27,777
18,118
6,387
5,901
 128
 486
35.3
7.6
24.1
32.6
2.0
11,731
1995 OCT
30,457
20,926
6,489
5,976
 183
 512
31.0
7.9
21.1
28.6
2.8
14, 438
2000 
33,129
23,295
6,188
5,801
 176
 387
26.6
6.3
13.5
24.9
2.8
17,108
2005 
35,864
25,617
6,352
5,700
113
652
24.8
10.3
18.8
22.3
1.8
19,264
2006 
36,392
26,067
6,480
5,810
119
670
24.9
10.3
17.9
22.3
1.8
19,588
Table 4.2.          Summary:  Labour force statistics of the civilian population by gender
Source:  TURKSTAT Household Labour Force Survey results

65
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
4
 
 
 
 
 
Un-
employment
LFPR   
(%)
 
 
Employment 
rate                  
    (%)
 
Non-
participants 
 
15 - 24        
Civilian 
population 
Labour 
force 
Employment
Under 
employment
Un-
employment 
rate                     
(%)
Non-agricultural 
unemployment 
rate (%)
Under 
employment 
rate                  
(%)
 
Year 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOTAL 
1990 OCT
10,144
5,653
4,789
366
865
55.7
15.3
26.4
47.2
6.5
4,490
1995 OCT
12,391
6,137
5,198
508
939
49.5
15.3
23.5
41.9
8.3
6,254
2000 
12,703
5,401
4,696
454
705
42.5
13.1
19.0
37.0
8.4
7,302
2005 
12,176
4,710
3,800
201
910
38.7
19.3
24.5
31.2
4.3
7,466
2006 
12,099
4,589
3,731
185
858
37.9
18.7
22.8
30.8
4.0
7,510
MALE
  
1990 OCT
4,793
3,494
2,930
320
564
72.9
16.1
22.7
61.1
9.1
1,299
1995 OCT
6,057
3,939
3,319
435
619
65.0
15.7
20.3
54.8
11.1
 2,118
2000 
6,217
3,579
3,090
387
489
57.6
13.7
18.0
49.7
10.8
2,637
2005 
5,937
3,143
2,536
161
607
52.9
19.3
22.7
42.7
5.1
2,795
2006 
5,874
3,056
2,499
150
556
52.0
18.2
20.6
42.5
4.9
2,819
FEMALE
1990 OCT
5,350
2,159
1,858
46
300
40.4
13.9
38.0
34.7
2.1
3,191
1995 OCT
6,334
2,198
1,878
72
320
34.7
14.6
33.3
29.6
3.3
4,136
2000 
6,486
1,821
1,606
67
216
28.1
11.9
21.7
24.8
3.7
4,665
2005 
6,239
1,567
1,264
40
303
25.1
19.3
29.0
20.3
2.6
4,672
2006 
6,225
1,533
1,231
35
302
24.6
19.7
28.3
19.8
2.3
4,692
Table 4.3.       Summary: Labour force statistics of the young population of 15-24 years of age, by gender
Source:  TURKSTAT Household Labour Force Survey results

66
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
4
Part of the reason for this outcome may be 
that the more educated youth are likely to 
have higher wage expectations and more 
motivated to be looking for jobs in the 
formal sector of the economy as referred to 
above. Whatever the reasons are, the present 
situation seems to reduce the societal value 
of education in general, and further reduce 
the societal value attributed to vocational 
education and training in particular. As 
long ingrained, negative attitudes towards 
education and training make it harder 
to design and implement policies to 
combat unemployment, especially youth 
unemployment, policies to combat the low 
societal value and perception of education 
acquire urgency.    
The Turkish labour market, therefore, has the 
following characteristics: 
• higher than EU average urban and non- 	
  agricultural unemployment rates,
• a low employment rate,
• a high youth unemployment rate,
• a high share of agricultural employment,
• low educational attainment levels in the           	
   workforce,
• an inadequate education infrastructure and  	
  outdated vocational training system.
4.5.    Youth unemployment duration highlights
Long-term unemployed people (unemployed 
for over a year) comprise 37.5% of the total 
of unemployed, and this proportion is rising. 
In Turkey, as in the EU, the labour market 
situation of young people remains a cause 
for concern. Unlike in the EU, however, the 
situation is more worrying for young urban 
women in Turkey. 94 
BOX 4.3.  TO FIND A JOB IS DIFFICULT, BUT TO KEEP
	
IT IS EVEN MORE DIFFICULT
According to the State of Youth Survey the propensity 
to keep a steady and lasting presence in the labour 
market is strikingly low for young people who have 
completed their education or who have left school 
early. Only 38% of those who have joined the labour 
market worked more than six months in any one 
job. The socio-economic distribution of the young 
who have worked at permanent jobs also points 
to inequalities. The biggest portion of people who 
are laid off from jobs is the youth with low socio-
economic status, by 30.8%. 
Taşcı and Tansel have studied the un-
employment durations of youth in Turkey. 95 
Table 4.4 is taken from their study. It gives the 
percentage distribution of unemployment 
duration by gender for the 2000-2001 LFS raw 
data. The figures show that the percentage of 
the long-term unemployed is higher among 
young women than among young men. 
These figures are 16% for men and 25.3% for 
women. 
Taşcı and Tansel also report that the highest 
percentage of the long-term unemployed 
comprises secondary school and vocational 
secondary school graduates, 24.8% and 
20.6%, respectively. The lowest percentage 
of the long-term unemployed comprises 
non-graduates and junior secondary school 
graduates, 10.9% and 15.3%, respectively. 

67
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
4
Number
Less than 
3 months 
(percent) 
3-5 months
6-8 months
8-11 months
Over a year
Male 
2,066
36.8
33.3
10.8
3.3
15.9
Female
1,152
30.5
27.0
13.1
4.2
25.3
Table 4.4.          Unemployment duration for youth, by gender in Turkey, 2000-2001
Source: Taşcı and Tansel, 2005, Table 1, p. 521
BOX 4.4.   SIDE EFFECTS OF UNEMPLOYMENT MAY DIFFER FOR MEN AND WOMEN
In Turkey, not having a job after a certain age produces a dramatic impact, especially on the young male. To be 
unemployed means being an “inadequate, half-formed, incomplete” man. All this was openly expressed in our 
focus group meetings: “For us, having a job means pride. In our environment, if a man, especially if married, is jobless, 
he would generally be sidelined by the other members of the community.” 
However, young women without much education may adopt the traditional woman’s role and prefer to stay 
home and be dependent on their husbands, instead of taking up low-calibre and low-paid jobs. This is precisely 
what well-educated women want to avoid. Less educated women regard working or having a paid job only 
as a means of earning money and consider it “normal” not to work if they do not necessarily need the money, 
while better-educated women seem to have grasped the importance of having their own paid jobs in terms 
of gaining autonomy. Pelin, a recent university graduate, who comes from a well-to-do family, explains: “A girl 
should be able to stand on her own two feet, whatever her age is. She should marry only when she can stand on her 
own two feet and earn her own living. Because, however comfortably you may now be living, one day that life may be 
over. You can be faced with the worst of situations; you may have to break up your marriage.”
Special Contribution    Child labour is decreasing in Turkey
Turkey was one of the initial six countries to undertake direct action to combat child labour in co-operation with ILO/IPEC. In the 
framework of the comprehensive long-term Technical Cooperation (1992 – 2007) between ILO/IPEC and Turkey, the Government has 
developed a wide-ranging policy and programme, clearly identifying national priorities and objectives for the elimination of child 
labour in Turkey. National visions, policies, strategies, programme frameworks and legislation have created a tremendous amount of 
policy support and child labour issues have been mainstreamed into the national policies, which resulted in a significant decline of 
child labour in the country.
A nation-wide “Child Labour Survey” was conducted by the Turkish Statistics Institution (TURKSTAT) in 2006, supported by ILO/IPEC. 
According to this survey, which is a follow-up to earlier surveys conducted in 1994 and 1999, the incidence of child labour continues 
to fall. Of 16,264,000 children in the age group of 6-17, 958,000 are in working life. According to the results of the three surveys, the 
proportion of working children (age group 6-17) was 15.2% in 1994, dropping to 10.3% in 1999 and to 5.9% in 2006. In the age group 
of 6-14, 320,000 children out of 12,478,000 were working in 2006. Comparing this figure to data obtained from the 1999 survey, the 
proportion of children in this group who work decreased from 5.1% to 2.6%. The recent survey indicates that of all working children, 41% 
are employed in agriculture, 28% in industry, 22% in trade and 9% in services. 
The Ministry of National Education is working on introducing a ‘catch-up’ education programme in cooperation with UNICEF, the EU, 
the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Social Services and Child Protection Agency (SHÇEK) and the Ministry of Justice, as well 
as various NGOs. It is hoped that some 30% of early adolescents between the ages of 10–14 years who dropped out or never enrolled 
in school will be able to catch up on their education and will complete their basic education, while improving their chances to access 
to secondary education.
by ILO/TURKEY and UNICEF/Turkey

68
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
4
Enhancing the qualification level of the 
labour force, starting with the cohort of the 
next entrants, constitutes a crucial question 
for the youth and the Turkish labour market as 
has been illustrated in the previous sections. 
It would be preferable to run the labour 
market skill-upgrading programmes under 
the supervision of the Turkish Employment 
Organization (İŞKUR) or by the Ministry of 
Labour. Since training and education are 
expressed with the same word in Turkish 
(eğitim), The Ministry of National Education 
(MoNE) is virtually the only competent 
authority not only on general education, 
but on vocational education and training, 
and lifelong learning, as well. However, 
although recently efforts are being made 
to improve it, the MoNE curricula have for a 
long time been producing a very serious and 
undesirable mismatch between the quality 
of the vocational system graduates and the 
demands of the industry.
Education is a very good address for the EU’s 
IPA – structural adjustment - funds. Even if 
the education budget stays at its present real 
levels for some years, an upbeat note may 
come from the fact that the young age group 
in Turkey has stabilized in numbers. The 0-19 
year-olds make up about 20 million of Turkey’s 
total population of more than 72 million. The 
downside of this demographic development 
is that beyond the compulsory level, the 
schooling ratio is about half of this 20 million 
school-age youth; so a move to 12 years of 
compulsory education will necessitate serious 
infrastructure investment. 
Currently, Turkey has approximately 2.4 
million students in secondary schools. A 
move to 12 years of compulsory schooling 
would result in about twice that number of 
students to be schooled in about a decade 
in order to reach comprehensive enrolment 
4.6.   Education connection
(95%). The move from five to eight years of 
compulsory schooling required, on average, 
an expenditure of US$ 3 billion per annum 
since 1997.96 This may be a good indicator 
of the required expenditure for a transition 
to 12-year compulsory education. One may 
therefore surmise that the overall cost of such 
transition over a decade or 12 years would be 
approximately US$ 25 to 30 billion. This is a 
large outlay but certainly a necessary one.
In fact,  although expensive, the impact of 
such a move forward would be felt through
out all segments of the labour force. Male 
and female secondary school and university 
graduates have similar employment ratios.97 
This strongly suggests that the lack of 
educational opportunities is the main reason 
for the low female participation rates in the 
Turkish labour market. The reality of social 
inclusion is mostly about having a decent 
job, the means to which start with having 
marketable skills.
A recent OECD report98, just like the World 
Bank’s 2006 education sector report that 
preceded it, criticized the Turkish education 
system. As metioned above the Turkish system 
channels an elite few to some good schools 
like Science High Schools or ‘Anatolian’ High 
Schools where the medium of instruction is 
English. This is done at the expense of the 
standard public schools. The problem arises 
not from the fact that schools aiming at 
very high quality does not exist but from the 
extent of the disparities. Average literacy and 
mathematical skills  achievement  standards of 
Turkish students remain very low in relevant 
international comparisons. Graduates of 
better schools manage to pass the highly 
competitive nationwide university entrance 
examination and then move on to formal 
sector jobs. Since standard secondary schools 
are only geared towards providing access to 

69
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
4
the much-desired tertiary education, industry 
demand for vocational skills is not met.  
This education structure aggravates and 
perpetuates labour market segmentation. Far-
reaching reforms and strong political resolve 
are required to make progress. A vocational 
education and training (VET) system, serving 
the labour market’s need for ‘adequately 
employable’ individuals whose skills are 
compatible with international standards is 
evidently essential for the long-term human 
resources development policies in Turkey. 
The European Training Foundation (ETF) 
produced a review of the vocational educa-
tion and training system of Turkey, at the end 
of 1999. This report concluded (as outlined 
in European Commission’s Regular Report of 
2000 on Turkey’s progress towards accession) 
“a clear link between the requirements of 
the labour market and the skills acquired 
by the gradu-ates of the vocational schools 
is needed”. Later reports repeated similar 
recommendations, as not much has changed. 
This stagnation is partly due to the impact of 
the position  of a peculiar Turkish educational 
institution, which is discussed below. 
Religious vocational secondary schools are 
part of the Turkish vocational school system. 
Initially, there were few religious vocational 
schools, and they mainly educated the imams 
(Muslim clergy) and hatips (preachers) for 
the state administered mosque system. The 
only higher education opportunities for the 
graduates of these Imam/Hatip Vocational 
Secondary Schools were a few Theology 
Faculties of major universities. On the other 
hand, women cannot become imams even if 
they can serve other functions in the context 
of religious services, hence the proportion 
of female students admitted to Religious 
Vocational High Schools (Imam Hatip Schools) 
would be expected to be low. Although 
female enrolment was initially very limited in 
these schools (1% in 1975), over time female 
enrolment proportions have reached the 
same levels as the ratio of girls in standard high 
schools.99 Both male and female enrolment 
in religious vocational secondary schools 
increased extensively. At their peak in 1996-
1997, they had an enrolment of over 510,000 
students, 193,000 of whom were in the senior 
secondary school section and accounted for 
about 20% of corresponding vocational and 
technical secondary schools. Going beyond 
their original vocational scope, Imam Hatip 
Schools in some respects became in practice 
like general secondary schools,  with a strong 
religion component in their curriculum. 
Starting with the 1999-2000 school year, 
however, new regulations for nationwide 
university entrance examination made it very 
hard for vocational school graduates to further 
their education in subjects that are unrelated 
to their vocational high school background. 
In 1997 with the introduction of the eight-
year compulsory schooling, only the formerly 
senior secondary school sections of the Imam 
Hatip schools remained.  By 2000-2001, the 
number of students enrolled in these religious 
vocational high schools was down to 65,000, 
around 7% of the total. This number had risen 
to 96,000 in 2004.100 The discussions on the 
matter continue to date. It appears that the 
issue of religious vocational school graduates’ 
university paths occupy a disproportionate 
part of the agenda relating to the education 
system. 
The Turkish vocational and technical edu-
cation system has a strong organizational 
infrastructure and regional outreach.101 It is 
cost-free; so lower income families favour this 
system for their children to quickly acquire 
marketable skills. A weakness of the system 
appears to have been the lack of strategic 
planning by responsible authorities102, who 
seem to have been very slow in responding 
to changes.103 MoNE (Ministry of National 
Education) does not seem to use any 
substantive labour market projections or 

70
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
4
analysis of the skills needed in the labour 
force and reform the curricula accordingly. 
The 
Higher 
Education 
Council’s 
(YÖK) 
corresponding work looks somewhat more 
articulate but still insufficient.
Transition to work life is a problematic process. 
There are more unemployed vocational 
school graduates, compared with the same 
age group’s unemployment rate in 2002 
(13.5% vs. 11.4%).104. This reflects the fact that 
the qualifications of graduates do not meet 
the demands of the labour market.
On the positive side, however, Turkey has 
recently witnessed an unprecedented private 
sector initiative, regarding vocational schools. 
One of the largest industrial groups of Turkey 
(The Koç Group) decided to grant scholarships 
on a large scale, i.e. for four consecutive years 
to 2,000 students per year. These scholarships 
are given to regional boarding school stu-
dents who mostly come from less privileged 
families in the less developed rural regions of 
Turkey. Half of the scholarship recipients are 
young women. Also, a group of employers 
cooperates with the MoNE to significantly 
support and monitor the quality of a number 
of vocational schools. 
According to TURKSTAT’s monthly labour force 
surveys, one third of the unemployed people 
lack occupational qualifications and skills and 
are hardly employable. Many of the young 
people who cannot get into universities face a 
serious risk of long-term unemployment. The 
irony is that employers cannot find qualified 
personnel for their vacancies in technical 
positions. 
Turkish students do not prefer vocational 
schools, because the social status associated 
with a university degree is higher, largely 
due to the fact that such a degree is 
necessary for employment prospects at a 
secure and relatively well-paid public sector 
job. In a sense, the nationwide university 
entrance examination penalizes vocational 
school graduates. Attending a vocational 
school makes it very hard to get into a 
university other than one that is related to 
the student’s vocational field. The above-
mentioned initiative  provides incentives for 
young  Turkish  people to choose vocational 
education by first providing scholarships, and 
then providing practical training in their firms. 
The recipients will be given employment 
priority in the Holding’s various firms. 
The Turkish Enterprise and Business Con-
federation (TURKONFED) jointly published 
with Sabancı University’s “Education Reform 
Initiative’, a report entitled ‘Skills, Competencies 
and Vocational Education: Policy Analysis and 
Proposals” in November 2006. The document 
is a recent example of the Turkish consensus 
on the poor quality of the vocational 
education system. It cites the consequences 
of poor  quality as unemployment and lack 
of social cohesion, and low productivity in 
private businesses. The report reiterates the 
risks associated with this problem. It names 
unemployment and social exclusion, low 
productivity in the private sector, and falling 
behind in international competitiveness. 
It criticizes decades-long rigid planning 
practices and targets set by the authorities 
who ignored student and family inputs. The 
report focuses on the individual student skills 
and competencies within a lifelong learning 
context. As also evidenced by the scholarship 
and support initiatives, the Turkish private 
sector now regards itself as a stakeholder in 
vocational education and lifelong learning. 
This is a welcome development.

71
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
4
hand, popular tourist destinations could be 
promoted  by vocational tourism schools and 
programmes. 
The incentives need to be concentrated 
and provided at regional growth centers 
(regional centers such as those in the EU-
NUTS106 classification of 26 regions in Turkey 
may be contemplated). Therefore providing 
incentives to regional attraction centres like 
Bursa, Çorum, Denizli, Diyarbakir, Gaziantep, 
Urfa, Kahramanmaraş, and the like, regardless 
of their per capita incomes, i.e. even if they 
have relatively high incomes, is likely to be 
beneficial. Supporting knowledge economy 
structures in these centres would be needed 
What needs to be done for the employment 
of the rural youth population constitutes a 
critical issue.  Briefly, all Turkish youth, rural 
or urban, must have more schooling, eleven 
or twelve years. Farming and agriculture-
based industries will eventually be served 
by better-educated people or workforce. 
For those who will remain in the agricultural 
sector, active regional labour market policies 
to impart modern skills and techniques to 
the young labour force need to be designed 
and implemented. Pilot projects should be 
conducted and successful applications can 
then be promoted in other regions. Two-
year tertiary schools  can provide ‘relevant’ 
agricultural vocational training. On the other 
4.7.    On rural youth105 
BOX 4.5.         RURAL YOUTH EMPLOYMENT   
Agriculture is the major employer in rural areas. It accounts for 70% of the total rural employment. The sector 
provides employment for almost all females in. However, almost 90% of women work in agriculture, most of 
them as unpaid family workers. The share of agricultural employment has been steadily declining, now down 
to 27% of employment. 
Rural unemployment has been increasing during recent years. It is currently 6.7%. Rural aging is observed 
because of out-migration from rural to urban areas. Seasonal labour migration into the services sector (tourism 
and construction in the summer months) and into agriculture in late summer for harvesting crops is common. 
Clearly, this is not what Turkey should want for its next generation in rural areas. Higher value-added activities 
such as modern animal husbandry (dairy and meat production), aquaculture, year-round vegetables, fruit 
orchards, cut flowers, and the like may offer new job opportunities for the rural youth. 
How did such a large portion of the Turkish population and workforce remain in rural areas in Turkey? In 1950, 
the proportion of the rural population started to fall for the first time in the history of Turkey. It was 75% at the 
time. This first significant rural to urban movement coincides with the start of agricultural mechanization and 
the start of two-party democracy in Turkey. Perhaps, had the urbanization movement proceeded in its ‘natural’ 
course with  agriculture being modernised without being impeded by decades of agricultural subsidy policies, 
Turkey would have turned its rural population into better-educated urban citizens faster. After all, one has to 
come up with a plausible explanation for the reality of very high agricultural employment and rural population 
ratios that were out of line with Turkey’s per capita income levels. Now, it appears that things are finally moving 
as they are ‘expected’ to move in recent years. 
Women were routinely classified as unpaid family workers, so Turkey had high participation and employment 
rates overall. However, this seemingly convenient picture collapsed in the past ten years. Now, the migrants from 
rural areas have become uneducated and unskilled workforce for the urban labour markets. If rural populations 
continue to remain uneducated and unskilled, they will fall behind the coming modern agricultural labour 
market as well.  

72
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
4
created in   addition to the  vast  modernisation 
of agriculture and emerging rural industries 
in large rural areas. This type of differentiated 
approach may constitute  the most efficient 
way to allocate scarce resources for education, 
training, employment creation, and lifelong 
learning as well as reducing regional income 
disparities while enhancing the economy’s 
competitiveness.         
and particularly rewarding. This way, better 
infrastructure may await the  new comers 
– who are moving into these cities from 
rural regions - and ILO/UN’s ‘decent work’ 
requirements will then be more likely to 
be met. On the other hand, to alleviate the 
disparity affecting the  poor regions and 
sub regions, new and cluster type poles of 
competition, including in some relevant cases 
those based on high technologies  can be 
4.8.    Turkey needs a youth employment strategy   
1. The most important priority should 
be to finalize an articulate employment 
strategy. This most beneficial expected step 
is in line with both the EU and UN’s Youth 
Employment Network contexts. Dealing with 
youth employment within the framework 
of a national action plan would constitute 
the most adequate approach. Employment 
related policies and plans are necessarily of 
a general character that may also benefit 
larger groups (all women, for example). On 
the other hand, certain policy suggestions, on 
education and training will benefit the young 
(especially first time job seekers) more than 
older workers.107   
2. 
Identifying 
the 
specific 
features, 
constraints and opportunities which matter 
most in terms of employment creation 
will be crucial. Increasing urban youth 
unemployment rates in recent years brought 
about political discussions and a sense of 
urgency to the problem of youth employment 
in general. This is a challenge shared by the 
European Union countries, as well. Policies 
aimed at increasing youth employment point 
to measures for long-term poverty eradication 
and social inclusion. Identifying the specific 
features, 
constraints 
and 
opportunities 
which matter most in terms of employment 
creation will be crucial. For example, gender 
issues are paramount in the low labour-
force participation rate of the country, and 
gender inequalities are perpetuated in 
access to education and other dimensions of 
economic, social, and political participation 
by women. This is a specific challenge that 
requires a specific response appropriate to the 
context. Present day Turkish demographics 
and labour market dynamics are qualitatively 
and quantitatively very different from the 
demographically mature, more educated and 
urban labour force dynamics of EU, although 
similarities exist with respect to southern and 
new EU member countries and several other 
OECD countries. The Turkish population is 
still growing, the median education level is a 
low six years (despite the 8-year compulsory 
education) that renders active labour market 
policies less effective, and almost 30% of the 
population is still rural although this share is 
declining. 
3. Turkey definitely needs to increase its 
average level of educational/technical 
qualifications of young people. Otherwise, 
long-term productivity gains in all sectors 
will be constrained. Also the present high 
productivity pace will be curtailed. 
Worker 
productivity 
increase 
is 
the 
prerequisite for employment to shift from 
low productivity sectors like agriculture. The 
trend is relatively slow but surely in favour of 
reducing considerably rural employment as 
pointed out above and the related internal 

73
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
4
migration is a phenomenon with a large 
young age component. In this context 
increasing the schooling period in general, 
and not only raising the compulsory part 
to 11 or 12 years will provide more positive 
prospects. This would give the country about 
a decade as the demographic pressures will 
continue to ease, and the way for increased 
labour-force participation rates will be paved 
when the younger generation reaches prime 
age. Informal employment will gradually 
ease as EU labour standards become well 
established in the Turkish labour market.108  
4. Compulsory education needs to be 
increased to eleven or twelve years in 
both rural and urban areas. This would help 
augment the employability of migrating rural 
youth into the cities as well as in modern 
agricultural activities in rural areas for those 
who stay in these regions. Without such 
measures, implementing active labour market 
policies that target the youth will be either 
not possible or very difficult. 
5. 
Identifying 
first 
the 
competitive 
advantages  of  the  specific region, 
vocational 
training 
courses 
can 
be 
organized for the young people living in 
the economically underdeveloped areas, 
with the support and cooperation of local 
industrial zones and chambers of commerce 
and industry. In this context, alongside larger 
factories and companies, smaller businesses 
and workshops which can be set up with 
relatively small amounts of capital, engaging 
in the service sector, can be successfully 
encouraged. Within the same framework, 
micro-credits extended to young people could 
be increased. In collaboration with NGOs, 
trade associations and other organizations, 
consultancy services about entrepreneurship 
and business-conduct methods can be made 
available to young people. 
6. The quality of a job is as important as 
being employed. It is important to have a 
paid and “decent” job for the young. This 
means, having a job, which offers full social 
security, economic independence, and the 
opportunity to develop oneself. Otherwise, 
the young person cannot clarify his/her status 
between being dependent or independent, 
and is thus obliged to live in the family’s 
household. Therefore, this problem also needs 
to be addressed. A “bad” job can sometimes 
be as bad as not having a job at all. If a young 
person has to endure a very unsatisfying job, 
just because of the social security benefits it 
brings, s/he may be working under very heavy 
and unpleasant conditions. In addition, under 
such circumstances, s/he cannot find any time 
to spend with friends, to develop any hobbies 
or to participate in any kind of social activity. 
In other words, the period of youth or “being 
young in life” which must be, ideally speaking, 
the period of learning and experiencing, is 
reduced to a period of “survival”. Therefore, 
the idea that “any job is better than no job” 
is not unconditionally valid, especially in the 
eyes of and from the viewpoint of the young.
7. New and more specific employment 
policies, geared towards the needs of the 
young, need to be implemented in the 
fight against unemployment of the young 
population, their bad working conditions 
and low wages. Entrepreneurship efforts 
of young people should be encouraged. 
Decent minimum living wages and secure 
employment conditions are essential in pav-
ing the way to the economic independence 
of young people. 

74
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008

Chapter 5
    PARTICIPATION

“To engage in dialogue and joint decision making means 
to be willing to change the adult ways and experiment 
with new solutions... We cannot play with the voices of 
youth, accept them as long as they fit our programmes... 
and reject them when they do not. Youth participation 
is not a technique; it is a willingness to engage in inter-
generational dialogue.” 
Gil G. Noam, Editor-in-Chief, New Directions for Youth 
Development Journal

77
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
5
promotes active participation in social 
life where rights and responsibilities of 
the citizenry are clear then it is most likely 
that that child will grow to support the 
democratic system and actively participate 
in the development of his/her community. 
Another is the role that open, responsive, 
responsible and accountable institutions play 
in advanced democracies. In the absence 
of such an institutional environment, active 
citizenry is not going to bring about the 
expected benefits and without the hope 
and confidence inspired by democratic 
institutions, general participation levels will 
continue to be undermined. 
CHAPTER 5	 PARTICIPATION
5.1.   Lack of participation hinders Human Development 
The youth in Turkey do not and cannot 
participate in social and political life of the 
country at levels that would extensively and 
significantly contribute to national  Human 
Development. Among the most significant 
reasons for this phenomenon are economic, 
attitudinal and cultural as well as strictly 
political factors. All of these interact with one 
another to various degrees and thus render 
the consequences quite complex.
Several arguments are worthy of note. One 
is the dynamic impact that early childhood 
experience brings into a child’s adolescent 
life. If a child grows in an environment that 
Participation may take place on many levels, from the family to the international arena,  schools, workplaces, 
health services, local and national government, clubs, unions, parliaments, etc. United Nations defines youth 
participation as:
-economic participation (work and development)
-political participation (decision-making processes)
-social participation (community involvement)
-cultural participation (the arts, cultural values and expression)
The importance of young people’s participation is not only about the novelty of including their creative new 
ideas. It is about power, it is about young people having a concrete say on the decisions that are made. Roger 
Hart’s ladder of participation shows how some levels of participation can mean no participation at all:
-youth-initiated, shared decisions with adults
-youth-initiated
-adult-initiated, shared decisions with youth
-consulted and informed
-assigned but informed
-tokenism
-decoration
-manipulation
BOX 5.1.         DIFFERENT LEVELS OF PARTICIPATION
Source: Nicola Ansell, Children Youth and Development 
Increasing 
degrees of 
participation
Non-participation

78
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
5
In Turkey the young generations usually can-
not find an environment within their families 
or closest social circles that are sufficiently 
conducive to their autonomous and self-con-
fident development during their early child-
hood. A large proportion of their families still 
live out the cultural traits of earlier genera-
tions which do not support such active par-
ticipation in the social life of the country. As a 
result, their subsequent lives in their teenage 
years and afterwards can often simply lack 
the substantive and meaningful participation 
in many important dimensions of social life. 
Insufficient economic resources are often the 
cause behind these problems of early child-
hood developmental phases. 
Given the lack of public resources, mainly 
families with sufficient private resources 
can afford to invest in their children’s early 
education which gives these kids a head-
start in life guiding them into better schools 
that prepare them better for further stages 
of selections into higher levels of education. 
As such, even at the earliest stages of their 
lives a great many children experience well-
entrenched inequalities that lock them into 
inadequate levels of participation in social life 
as argued above. Public funds can pull these 
children into adequate early education that 
could guide them into adequate schooling 
chances which in turn would provide them 
better opportunities in the economic 
sphere. 
Equally important in this respect, is the fact 
that as a result of their early childhood and 
teenage education their eventual worldview 
and culture are also expected to change in 
certain predictable ways. If they remain in 
substandard schools where socialization into 
full citizenship rights and duties lag behind 
modern norms, these kids inevitably socialize 
into communal life without sufficiently 
acknowledging differences, learning tole-
rance of social differences, or protection 
of freedom of expression. As such, these 
students’ inadequate education locks them 
into circles of ideological predispositions that 
resist democratic reforms and promotion 
and expansion of democratic freedoms and 
responsibilities as citizens. They are neither 
ready nor willing to pay their due taxes nor 
are they ready to sufficiently acknowledge 
and support protection of religious, ethnic 
and cultural differences and differences 
of opinion. They are more likely thus to be 
suspicious of the trustworthiness of fellow 
citizens and refrain from participating into 
civic activities that help  Human Develop-
ment in the community and country at large. 
The State of Youth Survey shows that in Turkey the 
participation of youth in the decision-making 
process of the family is low. The participation of 
youth is low even in decisions about everyday 
matters such as determining what TV channel 
to watch (55%) and the nature of time spent 
together (52%). This rate falls to 43% in economic 
issues concerning the family. Participation in family 
decisions falls as the socio-economic status and 
age declines.
BOX 5.2.   YOUTH’S PARTICIPATION IN
	
 FAMILY DECISIONS  
Institutions also dynamically shape and are 
reshaped by individual citizens. If the public 
institutions at various levels of government 
simply do not respond to citizen demands 
and expectations then their adequate fund-
ing by citizens’ taxes will not be forthcoming. 
Why would individuals pay their taxes if they 
think that these funds will be wasted by the 
bureaucrats either because of inefficiency, 
cronyism or for political gains? So, to ensure 
adequate participation at all levels citizens 
should see that their administration acts 
responsibly and can be held accountable 
for the policies followed, monies spent and 
taxes collected. No education system can 
provide adequate educational and moral 
backing to young generations for their 
proper democratic socialization into public 
life as long as corruption, irresponsiveness 
and unaccountability are rampant in the 

79
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
5
system. School administrations should thus 
make sure that their students actively take 
responsibility at all levels of education for 
the monies spent, policies followed and 
act accountably for any unsatisfactory 
performance as an example of what 
should exist in the real world outside of 
schools. Hence an integral part of extra-
curricular activities should include not only 
in-community student activities mimicking 
the civic participation in later stages of life 
but also be exemplary of citizenship duties 
in maintaining a healthy link with public 
administrative bodies. At the lowest level 
of public engagement the student should 
feel the responsibility of acting as a civilian 
representative as well as responsible public 
administrator working hand in hand to shape 
community policy. 
One of the most important means for the 
youth to become responsible citizens is 
political participation. In Turkey citizens can 
now run for parliament from  the age of 25, 
they already  vote in the elections from the 
age of 18.110  However, this does not mean 
that political participation prospects of youth 
have progressed in the same degree. Unless 
they are complemented by financially based 
incentive structures in this field and genuinely 
encouraged in practice, youth participation in 
political parties will remain restricted. Equally 
important is that via these incentive systems 
the financial transparency of the parties can 
be established more solidly and their links to 
clientelism can be reduced. Any oligarchic 
control of a party’s leadership can also be 
prevented by more active participation of 
different citizen groups in these parties. 
This also necessitates a mentality change. 
There were only 35 people in the 30-35 age 
group who were elected to the 2002-2007 
parliament of 550 deputies. This number 
decreased to only 19 people after the 22 July 
2007 elections. On the other hand, Turkey 
gave its female citizens the right to vote and 
BOX 5.3.   YOUTH NOT INTERESTED IN GETTING 
	
INTO POLITICS 
Youth foster feelings of cynicism and distrust 
towards political mechanisms. They believe that 
“politics isn’t honest or just” and that “people who 
deserve are not where they should be”.  The same 
distrust is felt towards politicians as well. “Those who 
protect only themselves and their relatives”, “those who 
don’t do much for the people” and “they are not telling 
the truth” are statements often used by youth when 
describing politicians...109 According to the State 
of Youth Survey the rate of youth who are currently 
active in a political party is 4.7%. Three-fourths of the 
remaining 95.3%  are not considering taking part in 
any political party in the future. 
to be elected in 1935, years before many 
European countries did, but the number of 
women in the parliament is still very low.111 
It is important to be able to give youth their 
rights not just on paper but also in actual 
implementation. Serhat who actively works 
at a youth branch of a political party believes 
that the way the youth is perceived lies in 
the core of all these issues: “The reason is the 
way youth is perceived. We need to change the 
perception of youth in the Constitution as well. 
In Turkey, youth is perceived as a creature that is 
on the verge of bad habits, who is confused and 
who needs to be involved in sports all the time 
from when he is 18 until the age of 30, but for 
some reason they are given the right to vote at 
the age of 18! The 51st article of the Constitution 
needs to be changed first in order to change the 
perception of youth”.112
Similarly, youth’s perception of politics also 
needs to be changed. Given the fact that 
youth are asking for politics that are “more 
reliable”, “more transparent”, “more honest”, “more 
purified from cliental relations” and “sensitive to 
youth’s primary problems such as unemploy-
ment and education”113, youth also need to be 
won back.
As a starting point, in order to pave the way for 
the youth who want to participate in politics, 
the possibility of  being elected deputy at 25 
needs to be fully utilised as mentioned above. 

80
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
5
BOX 5.4.         YOUTH VOLUNTEERISM AND UNV
The UN system also promotes volunteerism for 
development (V4D) through the United Nations 
Volunteers (UNV) programme  administered 
by UNDP. UNV was designated by the General 
Assembly resolution in 1976 as the major 
operational unit of the UN for the execution of 
youth programmes. Subsequently, resolutions in 
2001, 2003 and 2006 went further to recommend 
specific initiatives for encouraging and facilitating 
youth volunteering. 
Youth volunteerism has an untapped potential 
which could be put to the service of developing 
young people and enhancing their social inclusion, 
as well as facilitating their meaningful contribution 
to the development of their local communities. 
While the youths’ distrust towards politics 
seems to  be rather widespread, civil society 
can  offer some adequate  participation 
tools for the youth. A 19-year-old girl who 
has lost hope in her family and the State and 
who has  all her hopes on the civil society 
and volunteerism says: “I  expect solutions to 
problems  only  from  outside  the State. I also 
don’t   expect  my father to solve problems 
because I cannot change him anymore. People 
can succeed in changing certain things by 
helping each other and making them feel 
valuable because  the person who helps will 
become more social, she will feel that she is 
not useless and will spread this. This will have a 
chain effect”.114
Many foundations and associations in 
Turkey allow youth to participate through 
volunteerism and to learn and create 
something. As the active citizenship literature 
suggests, volunteerism and youth services 
that young people provide boost their self-
esteem. Research shows that involving 
young people in activities serving the greater 
community has a positive impact on their 
personal development, sense of civic and 
social responsibility, knowledge and aca-
demic skills and career aspirations. 115
However, among those who participated in  
the State of Youth Survey the rate of young 
people who are members of a non-
governmental organization is only 4% 
in Turkey. About 46% of these are either 
university students or graduates. Meeting 
new people and entering new environments, 
getting to find out about various student 
clubs and voluntary activities are realized 
in the university setting in the majority of 
cases. Universities play an important role in 
providing opportunities that enable youth to 
5.2.   Can civil society be an adequate channel for youth participation?
learn participation by actually practicing and 
experiencing it. The emancipating effect of 
participation and volunteerism on the youth is 
very significant. A youngster who is taking part 
in NGO activities recounts how these activi-
ties have an effect on changing one’s point 
of view towards  people as follows: “When 
you include people in communal life and when 
you try to  teach them  something, you learn 
as well. You take on enormous responsibilities. 
I learned  a lot since I started participating in 
NGO activities 2-3 years ago. I learned to take 
on responsibility and to exist together with the 
community”. Another young person who has 
been a part of NGO activities for a long time 
draws attention to the fact that youth who 
are members of NGOs cope with life better 
than others: “If a small test was to be conducted 
among these friends here, their problems 
regarding education, employment and health 
would be at a lower level than other young 
people because we learned to be productive. 
With persistence and determination...”116

81
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
5
NGOs teach youth many things regarding 
tolerance towards youth and respect for 
differences: “Before, I couldn’t tolerate different 
points of view. If someone shared an opinion B 
while I believed in A, I would think to myself ‘ how 
can this be? This is wrong’. Now I believe that I 
should listen to others and I do listen. Sometimes 
I find that they are right. We may look at things 
differently but there are always common 
points”.117 Another young person defines the 
change in himself as follows: “Before I would 
say ‘I cannot even share the same table with 
BOX 5.5.         VOLUNTARY ACTIVITIES IN TURKEY
Following the 1999 earthquake, Turkey witnessed the difference that can be made with the mobilization of 
hundreds and thousands of volunteers. Since then, volunteerism started to strengthen and be institutionalized. 
With the adoption of terms such as “corporate social responsibility” in the private sector, good governance in 
public institutions and volunteerism and social entrepreneurship in NGOs in the past years, many individuals, 
companies and NGOs started to give support in order to bring about solutions to society’s problems and to 
sustainable development through voluntary initiatives. There are many volunteer institutions in Turkey from, 
for example, the Volunteers Foundation of Turkey that receives donations from the citizens for supporting 
education to TEMA that is active against soil erosion which is a serious environmental problem in Turkey, to the 
Foundation for Help to the Vulnerable and Lone Persons. In fact in Turkey there is  a tradition of such institutions 
and a multitude of foundations operated effectively in the Ottoman Empire period. 
The voluntary activities on youth that accelerated in the 1990s and gained further pace in the 2000s are 
increasing with the opening of new associations and foundations every day. Recently important steps have been 
taken towards reducing the volunteerism age to below 18 and to strengthen civil society consciousness. With 
the changes in primary education curriculum, volunteerism programmes are implemented in schools. Elective 
communal sensitivity courses including other voluntary activities were started in university programmes. The 
European Union accession process brought about a new dimension to the youth’s voluntary activities in Turkey. 
Today many youth work in NGOs abroad as volunteers. State organs and NGOs share the same idea according to 
which  voluntary service brings many opportunities to youth. Two of the largest voluntary “armies” established in 
Turkey by youth are the Red Crescent and Community Volunteers:
Red Crescent – The Red Crescent which  was established as the Association of Aid for Ottoman injured and ill 
soldiers in 1868 has a giant voluntary network that carries out aid activities both in Turkey and abroad. While 
there were voluntary activities in only two branches in 2003, this number rose to 207,000 volunteers in 649 
branches in 2007. The Youth and Volunteers Organization Department in which the oldest employee is 40 years 
old is trying to reach more youth with the slogan “We are incomplete if you’re not here”. It constitutes an example 
of youth supporting aid activities.
Community Volunteers – Community Volunteers is a youth NGO, established with the aim of turning youth’s 
energy into social projects. Producing projects with the leadership of youth, Community Volunteers is trying 
to establish a network of youngsters, who are motivated, responsible and respectful to differences. They are 
organized at universities, as clubs and student societies. They are working with 13,000 volunteers at 73 universities. 
Currently they have 375 social responsibility projects, ranging from support to education, fight against poverty, 
health education and democracy to entrepreneurship. Community volunteers also provide internship, guidance 
and scholarship opportunities for young people.     
these people for two minutes’. Now I started 
to share my life with them and my prejudices 
towards them have disappeared”118.
A young girl says, and quite accurately: “Youth 
need to believe that they have the power to 
change something. Feedback on what they have 
changed after their work is done needs to be 
given so that they are motivated. If young people 
believed that they weren’t useless, they would 
work harder”119. NGOs transform volunteer or 
professional youth who work within these 

82
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
from 1,476 projects organized by youth 
between 2003 and 2007. 120  Such projects in 
which these young people are involved are in 
fact the reflection of the dynamic effects of 
the European Union process.121
It has already been mentioned that only 4% 
of the youth who participated in the State of 
Youth Survey were members of NGOs. The fact 
that NGOs in Turkey are still in the process of 
developing their capacity accounts for the 
low participation rates. Moreover for  NGO 
projects where  the international dimension 
stands out, more educated young people 
who know how to use computers adequately 
and, more importantly, who know enough 
English have an advantage. However, in 
Turkey the rate of youth who speak a foreign 
language adequately so as to be able to read 
a publication is 28.4%.122 Regional differences 
should not be forgotten either.  When we 
look at the distribution of National  Agency 
projects among cities we see the remarkable 
 BOX 5.6.    THE DISTRIBUTION OF NATIONAL AGENCY PROJECTS ACCORDING TO CITIES (2003-2007)  
organizations into enterprising individuals. 
While helping these participating individuals 
to raise awareness within the society through 
environmental and social development 
projects, they also help these young people 
to expand their vision. Youth who get an 
opportunity to actively participate in the 
community life through NGO studies say that 
they get more motivated when they see the 
outcomes of what they do and that they start 
thinking ‘what more can I do?’
There  are public institutions that work togeth-
er with non-governmental organizations in 
order to transform these active youth--who 
create opportunities for everyone with their 
work--into a majority. International sources 
contribute meaningfully to these public 
institutions. For example, through the support 
of the National Agency that is the implementer 
in Turkey of the Youth Programmes under 
the framework of  European Communities 
Programme, almost 20,000 people benefited 
Source: National Agency
YOUTH PROJECTS
2007

83
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
5
gap between large and small cities and 
between the east and the west (see Box 5.6).
Increasing youth’s participation in social life is 
one of the important tools toward decreasing 
and eradicating exclusion that seems to have 
increased in Turkey in the last decades. The 
state, municipalities, non-governmental 
organizations and the private sector should 
continue to create social activity areas free 
of charge and to open various courses to 
poor youth who need these social activities 
the most. Of course ways should be found to 
better publicise these activities, courses and 
studies to youth. In order to prevent youth 
from involvement in smoking, drugs, abuse of 
alcohol,  crime and violence, more elaborate 
awareness campaigns should be broadcast 
on the most popular TV channels for youth 
BOX 5.7.      YOUTH COUNCILS ARE BEST PRACTICES IN INVOLVING YOUTH IN THEIR CITIES’ AFFAIRS 
In Turkey, 73 youth councils and 35 youth centres have been established in almost all provinces under the Local 
Agenda 21 (LA 21) Programme supported by UNDP since 1997.
	
The overall objective of the LA 21 Programme is to strengthen local governance by ensuring that civil society 
participates in decision-making and influences local investments and encouraging active citizenship  through 
its voluntary services projects. LA 21 aims to develop partnerships among youth for sustainable development 
and liveable environment, enables youth to establish partnerships with the governments, local authorities and 
the private sector and aims to increase the participation of youth in international youth related events. 
Through a series of projects, the youth councils have manifested a remarkable progress in promoting local 
governance and have clearly demonstrated their potential to trigger social transformation that accelerates 
the decentralization and democratization process in the country, as well as the process of integration with 
the European Union. Youth councils culminated in the establishment of the Local Agenda 21 National Youth 
Parliament in 2003. Within this programme, local women councils are also being established throughout the 
country. 
The Programme had a direct and significant impact on the recent legislation concerning local authorities. In 
particular, the “City Council”, as the main city-wide participatory platform of the LA-21 processes, has been 
incorporated in Article 76 of the new Law on Municipalities (enacted in July 2005).
The impact of the LA-21 Programme on recent legislation encompasses other significant provisions having 
been incorporated in the new Law on Municipalities, in particular in relation to participatory processes in the 
neighbourhoods, municipal committees, delivery of public services, etc, as well as other provisions promoting 
local “governance”.
and in the neighbourhoods where a large 
number of youth are vulnerable to such 
dangers.
In order to increase participation, NGOs 
need to ensure that their advocacy mes-
sages reach not only the youth but also their 
parents. Overcoming family obstacles for 
youth regarding civil and political participa-
tion will be closely connected to achieving 
this target. The focus group meetings 
conducted especially in Eastern and South-
eastern Anatolia show that NGO officials 
working in these regions often need to visit 
every household and try to convince families 
and youth in order to include youth in their 
work. But despite their frustrations, youth 
workers say that seeing “youth who involve in 
these activities and changing themselves and 

84
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
5
BOX 5.8.         CIVIC INVOLVEMENT PROJECTS FOR YOUTH 
An example of successful programmes in Turkish universities aiming to get the university youth actively involved 
in the larger social life of the country is Sabancı University’s Civic Involvement Projects (CIPs) that are being 
run in cooperation with 13 other Turkish universities. CIPs are seen as hands-on learning for understanding 
participatory democracy, where students take active roles in civil society, dealing with various problems and 
working in cooperation with national and international NGOs and state institutions. 
Individual responsibility for the society and the world is emphasized in the CIPs which are designed to provide 
the necessary tools for people to realize themselves. CIP strives for internalization of participatory and democratic 
values; focusing on the link between poverty-income distribution, health, education, access to information, 
gender equality, human rights and environment (http://cip.sabanciuniv.edu/eng). Each summer and during 
winter break, CIP students organize ‘discover yourself’ projects in Southeastern and Southwestern Anatolia. 
Working together with students from other universities and youth from the specific region where the two-week 
project is being carried out, they work with marginalized children to teach basic rights and to raise the children’s 
esteem through activities which focus on creativity. The CIP team is also coordinating a gender-awareness 
training programme for youth. This programme consists of a series of interactive activities designed to break 
stereotypes and provide youth with a basis of gender equality that they in turn can use to train their peers.
CIPs are designed to be initiated primarily by students themselves. Students design their projects with their 
team members in cooperation with the organization they will work with, and carry the projects out under 
the guidance of student supervisors. The projects are structured within a framework of structured curriculum 
but with room for individual contributions so that each member of the project actually has ownership of the 
project. 
their own environments is worth all this tire-
some work”. Evaluating and drawing lessons 
from projects realized by NGOs for providing 
opportunities to youth could multiply the 
good examples and interest. 
Finally certain potential problems in using 
the NGOs for primary integration of the 
youth need to be underlined. NGO activity 
by definition is based on the free initiatives 
of citizens and thus is bound to reflect 
the present state of cultural and political 
predispositions. NGOs in Turkey are obviously 
more democratically governed and more 
open to women and youth participation than 
other organisations and institutions. However, 
problems similar to the larger societal 
problems in participation and hierarchies that 
are difficult to break for the disadvantaged 
youth are all still present in the NGO sector 
as well. It would be naive to conclude that 
youth participation in NGO activities does 
not need the same caution, subtle guidance 
and promotion in line with the one needed 
within the other areas and  mechanisms. In 
addition, some NGOs are established with the 
aim of reinforcing rigid hierarchical or ultra-
traditionalist approaches in society. Youth 
are also likely to be attracted and targeted by 
these NGOs. Thus, not only should the overall 
institutional environments in which these 
organisations find themselves operating  be 
opened to competition for activities but more 
importantly, NGOs should be encouraged to 
build partnerships with one another. Isolation 
of certain NGOs into different fields of activi-
ties or social segments will simply counteract 
the influence they are expected to have on 
youth participation. NGO activity needs 
support from government sources on the basis 
of their ability to include youth and women 
into their activities and membership while 
not having to forego their independence.

Chapter 6
    VISION FOR THE FUTURE

“We can’t solve problems by using the same kind of 
thinking we used when we created them.”
Albert Einstein

87
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
6
CHAPTER 6	 VISION FOR THE FUTURE
6.1.    Time for another leap in Turkey
Turkey has a 15-year window of demographic 
opportunity to prepare today’s youth for the 
challenges of 2023 and beyond. By then, 
about 70% of Turkey’s population will be of 
working age and the working-age population 
of Turkey will be increasing, though at a 
decreasing rate, until 2040.123 This so-called 
demographic transition, when the population 
growth rate is declining while the working 
age population keeps rising is called ‘the 
demographic window of opportunity’. Such 
an episode is a one-off ‘opportunity’ in a 
country’s history. Young people of today will 
also form the majority of decision-makers and 
implementers by the year 2023. Turkey needs 
therefore to begin now to invest much more 
intensively in its young people to equip them 
with advanced skills, including to a significant 
degree those required by the knowledge 
economy in preparation for the challenges of 
15 years ahead. 
Turkey took giant steps in development since 
its foundation. When the Turkish Republic 
was founded in 1923, Turkey’s resources were 
depleted by years of continuous warfare 
that preceded the War of Independence. Its 
population at that time was 13 million, and 
more than 75% of the population lived in rural 
areas. In 2008, 85 years after its foundation, 
Turkey’s population is 70.5 million according 
to the 2007 Population Census and only 
30% of the population lives in rural areas. 
Urbanization is continuing. The literacy ratio 
in the 1920s was only 10%; today the illiteracy 
ratio is 10%. During the 1923-24 school year, 
there were 360 thousand students at school 
at  all levels124 and there were only 321 
graduates from the Turkish universities. 
The school system today houses as many 
students as the Republic’s total population 
then. There are 350 thousand young people 
graduating from the universities every year. 
Life expectancy at birth was thirty-five years 
back in 1920s; it has been doubled since then. 
There was very little industry. Manufacturing 
industry accounted for 2% of national income. 
The country is now an important industrial 
exporter with total exports exceeding US$ 100 
billion.125 Turkey had 1.1 telephones and 0.3 
cars per one thousand persons back in 1923. 
Today, more than a third of the population 
owns cellular phones and it is estimated that 
there are 65-70 cars per 1,000 persons in 
Turkey. 
Turkey’s recent economic growth has been 
the most powerful in the OECD. Turkey has 
grown continuously in the twenty-four 
quarters during 2002-2007. Current per capita 
income exceeds US$ 5,500. The Turkish gross 
domestic product is now around US$ 500 
billion. As these numbers illustrate, Turkey’s 
progress since the foundation of the Republic 
has been enormous. 
However, there are many significant items 
on Turkey’s unfinished agenda until it 
reaches its 100th birthday in 2023 to use its 
considerable potential productively in the 
era of increasingly internationalising and 
globalising knowledge economy and to 
achieve the level of development and welfare 
it is targeting. Economic growth alone does 
not necessarily lead to increases in the quality 
of life indicators. Increased consumerism, 
having more or better telephones, cars, 
televisions, is not by itself  enough to build 
the good society – or to deliver increased 
happiness. Issues of  Human Development, 
income distribution, social solidarity, human 
and social security, and human rights need to 

88
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
6
edition). The number of 15-64 year-olds, 
those of the working age, would reach its 
peak of 64.8 million in 2040. After that date, 
this number will start coming down and 
65+ year-olds will constitute the only rising 
proportion of the total population. The old 
age dependency ratio will rise swiftly from 
single digits in 2020 to 18% in 2050.  
The number of young people in the age 
bracket of 15 to 24, after reaching a high point 
of 13.7 million in 2010, will start to diminish. 
At the Republic’s one hundredth anniversary 
the country will have 13.6 million young 
people aged 15 to 24.128 They will constitute 
an increasingly smaller proportion of the 
6.2.      Young population will start decreasing after 2010
are well-defined goals to reach. Just like 191 
countries -including Turkey- came together 
in the Millennium Summit in the year 2000 
and committed themselves to realize the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
they set together; Turkey, apart from general 
MDGs, is in need of setting a broad range of 
specific goals in order to realize a vision for 
the 100th anniversary of its foundation. There 
is already massive ongoing work within the 
state institutions. For instance, The Scientific 
and Technological Research Council of Turkey 
(TÜBİTAK) has been working on a “Vision 
2023” project which was helpful in preparing 
this chapter. 
BOX 6.1.      MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
In the Millennium Summit of September 2000, 191 nations have pledged to achieve the Millennium 
Development Goals, including the overarching goal of cutting poverty in half by 2015. These goals are: 
1. Halving extreme poverty and hunger  
2. Achieving universal primary education  
3. Promoting gender equality  
4. Reducing under-five mortality by two-thirds  
5. Reducing maternal mortality by three-quarters  
6. Reversing the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis  
7. Ensuring environmental sustainability  
8. Developing a global partnership for development, with targets for aid, trade and debt relief 
be given the required priority while achieving 
economic growth. This is also necessary for 
ensuring the sustainability of growth and 
development.
Thus, a projection to the year of 2023 might 
be helpful in seeing the missing ingredients 
for an even brighter future. Projections help 
to build informed visions. Visions help to 
implement relevant strategies that crystallize 
the priorities in order to reach specific targets. 
Clear priorities make it easier for decision-
makers and political leaders to mobilize NGOs, 
media and the public in general. Monitoring 
progress becomes easier as well, when there 
Turkey’s population growth rate has been 
declining because of dropping fertility and 
birth rates. In the 1970s, the average birth 
rate was 3.5%. Today it is 1.26%. The fertility 
rate was 5.1 per woman in the 1970s while 
today it is 2.2. Despite decreasing birth rates, 
the population in Turkey grew twice its size 
since 1970s and it will continue to grow but 
at a slower pace.126  Rapid population growth 
rates now belong to the past and this process 
is irreversible, a direct consequence of which 
is the inevitable change in the age structure 
of the population.127
By 2040, Turkey’s population is expected to 
reach 96.8 million (UN medium variant, 2006 

89
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
6
population, going down to 12% in 2050. By 
2040, there will be more old people who are 
over 65 than there are young people who 
are 15 to 24 years old. This will happen very 
swiftly. Thus, the year 2023 will see Turkey as a 
‘middle-aged’ country. This makes it a must to 
address today’s young people that will make 
up most of the middle-aged in 2023. 
The favourable dependency profile of the 
coming decades presents opportunities 
as well as challenges to the government. 
Unless Turkey can smartly benefit from 
this window of opportunity the increasing 
dependency ratio afterwards will upset 
social balances. If employment opportunities 
are accommodating, a larger fraction of 
the population will be gainfully employed. 
The tax base will most likely expand and 
consequently public savings will increase. 
Even if the share of spending on education 
were to stay constant as a proportion of the 
GDP, the average quality of schooling is likely 
to improve. If adults have jobs, children will 
stay in school longer and can look forward to 
better labour market opportunities.129 If this 
opportunity is mismanaged, unemployment, 
poverty, and social unrest may lie ahead. 
On the employment side, unless Turkey can 
improve its population’s education level and 
impart its active population contemporary 
labour 
market 
skills, 
the 
window 
of 
opportunity may easily turn into a window of 
unemployment nightmare as has been made 
explicit in Chapter 4. 
About 70% of Turkey’s population lives in 
urban areas: Urban population has increased 
from 14 million in 1970 to 48 million today. 
Turkish urban population exceeded its rural 
population for the first time in the early 1980s. 
Between 1990 and 2000, the city population 
of Turkey increased by about nine million. 
Half of this increase between 1990 and 2000 
came directly from rural-urban migration. 
Rural-urban migration is mainly a young age 
phenomenon. Two thirds of young people in 
the country, 7.8 million, live in urban areas. This 
is partly due to young people moving on their 
own and young families with younger children 
moving into the cities. Older groups are more 
likely to stay behind (rural ageing is already 
observed in Turkey). This is another aspect that 
makes youth issues an urgent priority. If not 
tackled appropriately, most young people will 
grow up having no opportunities, and social 
unrest may grow in cities across the country.130 
Neglect would obviously  further deepen 
inequalities among Turkish youth and limit 
their ability to realize their full potential. 
Future rural-urban migration will not be as 
significant as in the past. This may be a slight 
relief for rural policy designers. Moreover, rural 
fertility rates also declined fast in the past fifty 
years and thus contributed to the decline in 
the total fertility rate.131 The east and southeast 
regions have been out-migration regions 
for decades. However, their population now 
constitutes less than 10% of the total Turkish 
population. The feared scenario of unskilled 
masses with little education coming from rural 
regions and flooding further the outskirts of 
the cities is not a likely scenario. 
We 
can 
summarize 
general 
future 
demographic trends as follows132:
•     The population growth rate will continue 
to  slow down. By 2025 population growth 
rate  is expected to be 0.8%. 
•      The birth rate will continue to slow down.
By  2025, it is expected to be 1.5%.
•   The young population will continue to 
decrease. 
•     After 2025, policies will start focusing on 
adults and elderly people.
•    Death rates will increase because of the 
aging population. By 2025, it will be 0.8%.
•     The child mortality rate will decrease but 
it is likely to be higher than in many 
developed countries in 2025. 
 

90
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
6
6.3.      Education is the first priority 
Quality education -- equipping people with 
skills such as an adequate cognitive capacity, 
critical and creative thinking, computer literacy, 
mathematics, knowledge of a foreign language 
-- is essential in a fast changing world. Merely 
increasing the number of students is evidently 
not sufficient. The main challenge is to develop 
more efficient and equitable systems and 
to ensure access to quality education for 
everyone. For Turkey’s 12 million youth who 
will be of working age by 2020, both quantity 
and quality are big challenges. Additional 
resources are required even for maintaining 
current participation levels. As discussed in the 
previous chapters, expansion of quantity when 
not accompanied by expansion of quality does 
not deliver positive results. 
Today’s economies are becoming increasingly 
intensively knowledge based with  IT already a 
pervasive technology needed in almost all 
spheres of activity,  thus requiring more skills. 
Special Contribution     The ten commandments for humanizing the digital age 
1. Thou shalt acknowledge that “People” should always be at the centre of all concerns. 
2. Thou shalt recognize that information revolution provides unprecedented opportunities to those countries, societies, and people 
capable of tapping its potentials. 
3. Thou shalt be aware that success in a globalizing world primarily depends upon human creativity, human knowledge, human 
productivity, human innovation, human skills supported by the new information and communication technologies. 
4. Thou shalt admit that it is those governments which encourage and give priority to investments in people’s education and health, to 
research and lifelong training and learning take most advantages of the globalization process. 
5. Thou shalt be resolved that in order to prevent the widening of the digital divide, the digital revolution needs to be humanized 
worldwide. 
6. Thou shalt agree that there is an ultimate relationship between technological development and scientific development. The science 
of today is the Research & Development capacity of tomorrow.
7. Thou shalt be informed that the new information technologies affect  Human Development in three ways. They:
    a. enhance human capabilities, human creativity and knowledge
    b. increase productivity which generates economic growth; and
    c. create large employment possibilities, requiring small amounts of investment. 
8. Thou shalt know that during the 21st century the yardstick for measuring the development level of a country will be “computer literacy 
rate” and no longer “adult literacy ratio.”
9. Thou shalt convince yourself that the best and most promising area for South-South cooperation is “humanizing the digital age.” The 
experiences acquired by the successful countries of the South could usefully be shared by the other ones. 
10. Thou shalt never forget that in the fight against poverty, UNDP’s most prestigious flagship is “  Human Development”, and thou shalt 
continue to pursue “ Human Development” as the main road map.  
by Üner Kırdar, 2007
Beyond individual sectors the globalising 
knowledge economy is becoming predomi-
nant and leading to deep transformations in 
every field.  For the first time in history we can see 
the immense contours and some of the striking 
features of the profound change affecting the 
world we live in. Science is becoming more 
directly and extensively involved in produc-
tion and economic activity in general. Higher 
education is becoming more important by 
the day if one wants to have a fulfilling and 
well-paying job. It is argued that over the next 
20 years, half the world’s professions, as they 
are currently practiced today, may disappear, 
with environment, advanced production 
methods and human resources management 
becoming key growth areas, in addition to 
knowledge management and IT.133 All this also 
means longer schooling as well as a need for 
more flexible and quasi-permanent patterns of 
teaching and learning. 

91
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
6
Unfortunately, Turkish compulsory schooling 
level is eight years. Currently approximately 
2.4 million students are enrolled in secondary 
schools. A move to 12 years of compulsory 
schooling would require about twice that
many students being enrolled in about 
a decade to reach close to universal 95% 
enrolment rate. As indicated above, it can 
be predicted from the cost of the move 
from five to eight years of compulsory 
schooling that a drive to 12-year schooling 
will reach approximately US$ 30 billion. 
Again as commented above, this is a large 
but definitely needed outlay. When dealing 
with this large cost, rural-urban population 
balance should be taken into account when 
allocating resources. Schools built in rural 
areas are closing down, there are cases where 
only two students start the school year. While 
72% of primary schools are in rural areas only 
27% of primary school-age children live in 
rural areas.134
Another  priority is to ensure that all children 
have access to quality early childhood 
education as already underlined above. 
Considering the role that early childhood 
education plays in a child’s performance 
in primary school and in later stages of 
educational life, expanded opportunities 
for early childhood  education is a key 
component of an education system that 
promotes quality and equal opportunity for 
all.  Currently, Turkey lags significantly behind 
other OECD and EU countries in terms of 
enrolment rates in pre-school education.135 
The government needs to give higher priority 
to early childhood education in its education 
investment plans.  
Higher education is a key area for the next 
20 years. Higher education, besides giving 
people “higher” skills, trains the trainers, 
namely teachers for all levels of education. 
Research & Development personnel are also a 
key outcome of higher education institutions. 
Thus, Turkey needs to revise its policies in 
higher education in order to make it of high-
er quality on average, apart from establishing 
further very high quality universities and 
also make higher education more widely 
accessible. Strengthening considerably the 
research dimension of the universities would 
also be most beneficial in this context.
Increasing net enrolment ratios especially for 
secondary and tertiary education is a must 
but investments and actions taken between 
now and 2023 will not affect those who will be 
over 45 by 2023. Thus, when making projec-
tions it is better to concentrate more   on the 
population that will be in the 25-45 range by 
2023, i.e. in the 10-30 years range today. The 
increasing schooling ratio will show its effects 
starting from 2015 because those who are 
out of school today do not have the chance 
to go back to school. In Turkey, at present a 
considerable percentage of those who are 
between 15 and 24 are poorly educated. 
However policies addressing out-of-school 
youth such as extensive and certified train-
ing courses, e-learning, distant learning and 
peer training can have a vital role in order 
to increase capabilities of the population by 
2023.
 
An important  feature of modern life is clearly 
the speed of change.  Adapting to fast-
changing needs is necessary for the success 
of countries and their people. Countries that 
invest heavily in Research&Development are 
able to benefit most from the opportunities 
carried  by the globalization  process 
and  protect themselves most effectively 
from its harmful effects. Technology can 
enhance human capabilities, creates jobs 
with also relatively small investments and 
fosters economic  growth  by increasing 
productivity.136 Ethical factors and effects on 
the environment and the climate have  to 
be fully considered in this process. On the 
other hand, protecting the environment and 
the climate can themselves constitute most 
suitable target areas for further scientific and 

92
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
6
technological   progress  and  such  techno-
logies could well become one of the main 
driving forces of the knowledge economy. 
Countries that combine fast technological 
development with scientific development lead 
the age of the knowledge economy. Globally, 
investment in research and development 
was doubled since 1990, and 80% of this 
expenditure came from developed OECD 
countries.137But countries like China and India 
are catching up fast.  Turkey’s Research and 
Development expenditures have increased 
from 0.6% of GDP only a few years ago to 1% 
of GDP and now amount to US$ 300 million. 
But Turkey’s research and development 
activity remains low when compared to the 
great majority of the other OECD countries 
and countries like China and India, it remains 
low in comparison to Turkey’s growth and 
development targets. 
Recently 
several 
young 
scientists 
and 
engineers from Turkey have produced 
noteworthy achievements in science and 
technology. However a more articulate 
national innovation system seems to be 
needed to render systematic such progress. 
This would at the same time contribute 
to reversing the brain drain with also the 
help of advanced new Internet related ICT 
technologies allowing virtual environments 
and communities for research to be created. 
Turkey’s young population can be  extensively 
and beneficially involved in catching up with 
the ICT revolution. Intensive certified training 
and the establishment of a large number of  IT 
companies would be key factors at the initial 
stage of this promising drive. 
In a broader context, Vision 2023 of The 
Scientific and Technological Research Council 
of Turkey (TÜBİTAK) mentioned above set 
strategic goals such as:
•	
Increasing pre-school enrolment over 
50% by 2023
•	
Making the primary school enrolment 
rate 100%
•	
Making secondary education compulsory 
and ensuring 100% secondary schooling 
•	
Increasing tertiary school enrolment over 
50%
•	
Ensuring 
accreditation 
for 
Turkish 
diplomas and certificates internationally
•	
Increasing the number of Research& 
Development personnel per person 
above OECD average and allocating more 
resources in R&D.
An action plan targeted to realize these goals 
consists of wide-ranging but complementary 
elements:
•	
Universities should be given more active 
roles in leading innovation and change 
because they are capable of doing so 
with sufficient financial resources and 
legal autonomy.
•	
Gaining vocational skills and improving 
these skills should be easier. If academic 
education is combined with practices to 
enable young people to accumulate work 
experience, the extent of which could 
vary among different types of education, 
it can be a more fruitful process.
•	
Out-of-school education should also be 
given priority.
•	
Training of the trainers and qualified R&D 
personnel should be ensured by quality 
higher education.
•	
Science and technology and a focus 
on 
future 
technologies 
such 
as 
nanotechnology 
and 
biotechnology 
should be given priority. 
•	
Enrolment ratios should be increased 
especially in pre-school and higher 

93
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
6
benefit of entering the labour market on 
the right foot, young people are less able 
to make choices that will improve their 
own job prospects and those of their future 
dependents. This, in turn, perpetuates the 
cycle of insufficient education, low-produc-
tivity employment and working poverty from 
one generation to the next.”138 
Several countries have taken important steps 
to address the youth employment issue and 
mainstream youth employment policies into 
national development strategies, with sup-
port from different international organiza-
tions. ILO and other United Nations agencies 
as well as the World Bank joined forces to 
create the Youth Employment Network 
(YEN).139 Turkey showed its commitment to 
the youth employment issue by becoming a 
lead country of the YEN in February 2006.140 
Also in 2007, Turkey agreed in principle 
to implement ILO’s Decent Work Country 
programme in which youth employment 
is an important component. Now, Turkey is 
expected to prepare a National Action Plan 
on youth employment within the YEN frame-
work as already mentioned.
Turkey will most likely also send some skilled 
workforce abroad in the upcoming years. 
education.
•	
Education reforms should be supra-
political, meaning free from the effects of 
government changes, institutionalised and 
continuous and supported by adequate 
research&development facilities. 
•	
Critical, creative and reflective thinking 
in schools through both curricula and 
attitudes of teachers and managers 
should be encouraged so that students 
	
learn to learn and gain the skill of adapting 
to change, which is vital in a fast changing 
world. 
As strongly emphasized above, youth 
employment creation is a critical component 
of a country’s long-term economic stability 
and growth. There are difficulties in Turkey 
in employment generation in general, in 
youth employment generation in particular. 
The youth unemployment rate currently 
stands at 17-18%. The problem is that for 
reasons explained in Chapter 4 the present 
unemployment pattern is very likely to 
change and create further pressures toward 
higher levels. 
In addition to those dealt with in Chapter 4, a 
number of factors need to be taken carefully 
into account.  Industrial employment, which 
has been increasing in latter years, would be 
expected to remain within a broad level in line 
with global trends. Agriculture will become 
smaller and services will become larger. At 
present, a little above 10% of the service sec-
tor is the high-end financial, health or teaching 
professions that requires university degrees. 
This ratio is bound to increase. Hence again 
the need to considerably strengthen tertiary 
education comes to the forefront. 
Unemployment of young people has broad 
consequences for the future prosperity and 
development of countries. “Without the 
The education system as a whole and all 
of its individual components, including 
vocational education and life-long learning, 
need to be further restructured and improved 
toward very high and competitive as well 
as broadly accessible quality to adapt and 
contribute to the knowledge economy driven 
process  which is  bound to shape Turkey’s 
development path to 2023. 
6.4.        Employment is the most critical issue

94
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
6
Economically prosperous countries attract 
young people from all over  the world. Despite 
their current problems with the integration 
of immigrants into their communities, 
several developed countries with shrinking 
populations will be forced to import young 
immigrants in order to maintain their existing 
labour force. It is estimated that without 
further immigration, the labour force in 
Europe, Russia and high-income East Asia and 
Pacific will fall by 43 million between 2005 
and 2025.141 
In summary, an action plan concerning 
employment may include the following 
points of focus:
•	
Increasing qualifications of the existing 
labour force by alternative effective 
major vocational education projects and 
practices, including extensive certified 
training 
•	
Creating regional development and 
competition poles based on the potentials 
of different regions
•	
Modernising a number of traditional 
sectors with also the help of high 
technology
•	
Modernising agriculture across most 
of the country and encouraging agro-
industries in these regions
•	
Encouraging the creation of a large 
number of IT companies by the young
•	
Supporting SMEs including their tech-
nology needs
•	
Attracting outsourced Research and 
Development jobs
Inter and intra-country inequalities are 
still affecting millions of people, especially 
vulnerable young people. Young people’s 
access 
to 
education, 
information 
and 
communication technologies, health ser-
vices, adequate housing and social participa-
tion are all affected by poverty. There is a lack 
of age-disaggregated data regarding pover-
ty but it is estimated that almost one in five 
young people –roughly 18% of young people 
worldwide—live on less than US$ 1 per day 
and almost 45%, 515 million young people, 
live on less than US$ 2 per day.142 There are also 
a huge number of “invisible” young people 
across the world: young people who serve as 
the fighting personnel for national and local 
militia, young people who get married and 
have children at an early age, young people 
living on the streets. The estimated number 
6.5.   Development with a human face  
of street  children  worldwide is 100-250 
million.143 It is also estimated that the number 
of under-18 sex workers, is more than 2 
million.144 
In Turkey, disparities persist between and 
within regions although efforts to diminish 
them have increased, especially in the context 
of the EU membership process. According 
to TURKSTAT data for 2001 composed of 26 
Level 2 Statistical Regional Units, the three 
poorest such units and the corresponding 
index numbers (Turkey=100) are: (Ağrı, 
Ardahan, Iğdır Kars), 34; followed by: (Bitlis, 
Hakkari, Muş, Van), 35; and then by (Batman, 
Mardin, Siirt, Şırnak), 46. Geographically these 
are in the Southeastern and Eastern Anatolian 
regions. Some of the poorest units are also in 
the Central and Eastern Black Sea regions. The 

95
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
6
richest three units are the following: (Bolu, 
Düzce, Kocaeli, Sakarya, Yalova), 191; (Izmir), 
150; and (Istanbul), 143. The per capita income 
distribution for 26 Statistical Regional Units is 
given in Annex One. 
 
Economic growth without redistribution will 
not solve the poverty problem created by 
inequalities. According to projections made 
by the World Bank if there is no change in 
inequality in five years (2005-2010), and no 
increase in consumption, then poverty in 
Turkey will stay at the same level of 27%.145 Yet, 
if inequality dropped only 1%, poverty will fall 
down to 24.7%. A 1% growth in consumption 
combined with a 1% decrease in inequalities 
reduces poverty to 22.1%.146
Poverty comes as a package, as also stated 
above. It comes together with malnutrition, 
diseases, insecurities and social exclusion 
and it especially affects children and young 
people.147 For instance, the chances of   chil-
dren of poor families to get education is a 
lot lower because of school expenses such 
as stationery, clothing, transportation etc. 
Research shows that even a small contribution 
such as US$ 20 a month can make a huge 
difference in the weak family budget and 
can help the family to send their children to 
school.148  The same research also shows that 
even an amount of US$ 30-40 can ensure 
regular meals for a household. Aid from the 
General Directorate of Social Assistance and 
Solidarity Fund has been playing a vital role 
in this respect. In Turkey, there are a relatively 
large number of state agencies working 
for the fight against poverty. The above-
mentioned General Directorate of Social 
Assistance and Solidarity Fund (Başbakanlık 
Sosyal Yardımlaşma ve Dayanışma Fonu), the 
Social Services and Child Protection Institute 
(Sosyal Hizmetler Çocuk Esirgeme Kurumu-
SHÇEK), the Ministry of Health and the 
General Directorate of Credits and Student 
Hostels (Yurt-Kur) and the General Directorate 
of Foundations (Vakıflar Genel Müdürlüğü) 
are the most prominent ones. Apart from 
other state institutions like Ministries or large 
General Directorates which have in many 
cases their own support organizations, there 
are also numerous private foundations and 
associations providing support for such 
purposes as education of children, places 
at student halls, food, fuel, small amounts 
of cash etc. Yet, coordination among these 
institutions can be improved for a more 
effective fight against the New Poverty in 
Turkey as described here below. 
New Poverty is a term first-used by Buğra and 
Keyder to explain the new type of poverty 
in Turkey starting from the 1990s with the 
changing structure of labour markets (urban 
markets are no longer capable of absorbing 
unskilled migrant workers, weakening of  fam-
ily networks and the saturation in slum areas 
in terms of accommodating  newcomers). 
Until the 1990s, a migrant family had the 
chance to settle down in a neighbourhood, 
find some land to build a house (gecekondu) 
and get a job thanks to the social network 
provided by kinship. However, this pattern 
has changed since then. Research shows 
that today’s migrants do not have the same 
opportunities simply because urban areas are 
very densely populated and almost no land is 
left to newcomers for gecekondus because of 
the rising value of land in urban areas. 
New poverty is a permanent phenomenon 
which is not directly related to economic crisis 
or bad economic conditions. Because of the 
changing structure of the labour market and 
the jobless growth in the world in general, 
unemployment is becoming a bigger prob-
lem every day. Temporary informal jobs do not 
guarantee a long-term economic security to 
poor families. Yet of course, economic growth 
can provide necessary funds for the State 
to combat poverty and enhance equality in 
terms of access to opportunities.149
The Long-term Development Strategy (2001-

96
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
6
2023) developed by the State Planning 
Organization has a strong emphasis on the 
fight against poverty. Improving income 
distribution and redistribution of growth 
as well as including rural population in 
vocational training programmes and thus 
increasing labour productivity; cross-sectoral 
labour mobility and increasing social service 
investments in order to overcome regional 
disparities are among the plans to alleviate 
poverty.150 Yet, there are two main problems 
when formulating and implementing an 
antipoverty strategy in Turkey. The first is “lack 
of cohesion and capacity on the part of the 
agencies responsible for implementing the 
related policies as stated above and the sec-
ond is the limited coverage of social services 
and social assistance.”151 These issues need to 
be  addressed  immediately to avoid the  seri-
ous social consequences of poverty, espe-
cially on children and young people.  Social 
deprivation and exclusion at the threshold 
of the Turkish Republic’s 100th anniversary 
and advance along the EU membership 
process is particularly unwelcome. Children 
and young people deprived of adequate 
food, housing, education, and health, apart 
from being deprived of realizing their human 
potentials especially in the slums of the cities, 
will absolutely not be able to contribute to 
the future social cohesion and solidarity of 
Turkey.  
On the other hand, Turkey’s youth has a 
truly strong potential for its future because 
of a series of reasons most of which have 
been outlined above. These include factors 
such as demography;  a number of cultural 
factors; a will to succeed in the contemporary 
world observed in the large majority of 
its youth; successful examples portrayed 
by part of Turkish youth in the academic 
world in Turkey and abroad; the dynamic 
entrepreneurial 
characteristics 
observed 
in  successful examples in this field and the 
economic endowment taken in its broad 
context; the  EU membership process and 
the transformations associated with it, in-
cluding at the governance level. Thus, it can 
be stated with a strong degree of confidence 
that bright prospects await a Turkey which, 
in conjunction with the other essential 
elements of a Human Development centred 
economic, social and cultural policy path, 
including protecting youth from poverty, if 
the country:
• Equips its youth with high quality educa-
tional, cultural, scientific and technological 
as well as cognitive capacity  certified at the 
international level, 
• Provides adequate health services especially 
to its youth,
• Ensures that its youth  acquires the power of 
self-development and participation including 
in the political field.
Fulfilling these targets by also devoting 
the required resources to and devising the 
governance structures for this purpose will 
definitely provide Turkey with the cohorts 
of youth making it converge effectively and 
in a timely way with the highest échelons of 
development in all its significant dimensions. 
Thus for Turkey, investing in youth eco-
nomically, socially and also in the realm of 
governance, including a leap forward toward 
enhancing participation will undoubtedly 
amount to investing in a bright and rewarding 
future.                        

97
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
ANNEXES	
ANNEX ONE   Turkey: Selected key statistics
Population and Demography 152
 
Population (2007)
 70,586, 256*
Percentage of the Population Aged 0-14 (2007)
   27.71*
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)- Total
71.3
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)- Women
73.8
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years) Men
68.9
Child Mortality Rate- Total
23.6
Child Mortality Rate- Female
26.4
Child Mortality Rate- Male
20.6
0-5 Year-old Mortality Rate- Total
26.2
0-5 Year-old Mortality Rate- Female
29.3
0-5 Year-old Mortality Rate- Male
23.0
Total Fertility Rate (Number of Children)
2.19
Population Growth Rate
1.26
Urban Population Ratio (2007)
70.48*
Rural Population Ratio (2007) 
29.52*
Population and Economy153
 
Gross National Product (US$)
399.673 million
Per Capita Gross National Product (US$)
5,477
Ratio of Population with Average Daily Income of Less than US$1
0.01
Gini Coefficient
0.38
Population and Development155
 
Per Capita Annual Energy Consumption(KGOE)
1264
Per Capita Carbondioxide Emission (metric tonne)156
3.12
Population and Education154
 
Adult Literacy Ratio (%)- Total
88.1
Adult Literacy Ratio (%)- Men
96.0
Adult Literacy Ratio (%)- Women
80.4
Net Schooling Ratio in Primary School (%)- Total
90.1
Net Schooling Ratio in Primary School (%)- Male
92.2
Net Schooling Ratio in Primary School (%)- Female
87.9
Net Schooling Ratio in Secondary School (%)- Total
56.5
Net Schooling Ratio in Secondary School (%)- Male
60.7
Net Schooling Ratio in Secondary School (%)- Female
52.2

98
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Unemployment (%)
 
Unemployment Rate
9.9
Urban Unemployment Rate
12.1
Rural Unemployment Rate
6.5
Non-Agricultural Unemployment Rate
12.6
Unemployment among Men (%)
9.7
Unemployment among Women (%)
10.3
Poverty (%)158
 
Percentage of  those below hunger limit including only food expenditures
0.74
Percentage of those below poverty limit including food and non-food expenditures
17.81
Poverty Ratio of Those Living in Rural Areas
31.98
Poverty Ratio of Those Living in Urban Areas
9.31
Poverty Ratio of Paid Employees (Wage and Salary Earners)
28.63
Poverty Ratio of Self-Employed People
22.06
Poverty Ratio of Employers
3.75
Poverty Ratio of Workers in Agricultural Sector
33.86
Poverty Ratio of Workers in Industrial Sector
10.12
Poverty Ratio of Workers in Services Sector
7.23
Source: TURKSTAT, details given in related footnotes
Labour Force157
 
Labour Force Participation Rate (%)- Total
48.0
Labour Force Participation Rate (%)- Men
71.5
Labour Force Participation Rate (%)- Women
24.9
Labour Force Participation Rate in Urban Areas (%)
45.5
Labour Force Participation Rate in Rural Areas (%)
52.2
(15-24 Year-old) Labour Force/Total Labour force (%)
18.5
Labour Force Partication Rate of University Graduates (%)
78.5
Labour Force Partication Rate of University Graduate Men (%)
84.1
Labour Force Partication Rate of University Graduate Women (%)
69.8
Labour Force Partication Rate of High and Vocational High  School Graduates (%)
57.0
Labour Force Partication Rate of High and Vocational High  School Graduate Men (%)
73.6
Labour Force Partication Rate of High and Vocational High  School Graduate Women (%)
31.4
Labour Force Partication Rate of Population with less than secondary school education (%)
46.9
Labour Force Partication Rate of Below-High School-Educated Men (%)
70.8
Labour Force Partication Rate of Below-High School-Educated Women (%)
21.8
Paid, Wage-earner, Salary-earner
56.5
Self-employed, Employer
28.9
Unsalaried Family Worker
14.6
Distribution of Employment (%) 
 
Agriculture
27.3
Industry
19.7
Construction
5.7
Services Sector
47.3

99
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
Data on Regional Income Levels159
Level 2 Statistical Regional Units
GDP per capita-index values (2001)
TR10 (Istanbul) 
143
TR 51 (Ankara) 
          128
TR 31 (Izmir)
150
TR 41 (Bilecik, Bursa, Eskişehir)
117
TR 42 (Bolu, Düzce, Kocaeli, Sakarya, Yalova)
191
TR 21 (Edirne, Kırklareli, Tekirdağ)
127
TR 62 (Adana, Mersin)
111
TR 32 (Aydın, Denizli, Muğla)
113
TR 61 (Antalya, Burdur, Isparta)
95
TR 22 (Balıkesir, Çanakkale)
98
TR 81 (Bartın, Karabük, Zonguldak)
108
TR 33 (Afyon, Kütahya, Manisa, Uşak)
88
TR 52 (Karaman, Konya)
75
TR C1 (Adıyaman, Gaziantep, Kilis)
65
TR 63 (Hatay, Kahramanmaraş, Osmaniye)
74
TR 72 (Kayseri, Sivas, Yozgat)
66
TR 71 (Aksaray, Kırıkkale, Kırşehir, Nevşehir, Niğde)
85
TR 83 (Amasya, Çorum, Samsun, Tokat)
73
TR 90 (Artvin, Giresun, Gümüşhane, Rize, Trabzon, Ordu)
67
TR B1 (Bingöl, Elazığ, Malatya, Tunceli)
67
TR B2 (Çankırı, Kastamonu, Sinop)
70
TR A1 (Bayburt, Erzincan, Erzurum)
50
TR C2 (Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa)
54
TR C3 (Batman, Mardin, Siirt, Şırnak)
46
TR A2 (Ağrı, Ardahan, Iğdır, Kars)
34
TR B2 (Bitlis, Hakkari, Muş, Van)
35
Turkey 
100

100
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
ANNEX TWO    Turkish youth statistics (aged 15-24)
Total Population 12,397,606160
Population
Total
Male
Female
Urban
8,839,888
4,532,587
4,307,301
Rural 
3,555,507
1,807,780
1,747,727
% Net Schooling Ratios162 
Total
Female
Male 
Primary
89.77
87.16
92.29
Secondary
56.63
51.95
61.13
Tertiary
18.85
17.41
20.22
Source: TURKSTAT
Labour Force161
Young population in the labour force:           	 4,574,000
Young population outside the labour force:    7,439,000 	 ---Women 4,709,000
                                                                                             	
---Men 2,730,000
Labour Force Participation Rate: 38.1%   ----Women   24.3%
	
	
	
           ----Men   52.9% 
Employed	 	
: 3,669,000 
Employment rate	
: 30.5%
Unemployed	
: 905,000
Unemployment rate	 : 19.8% 

101
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
The ‘State of Youth Survey’ was conducted by 
YADA (‘Yaşama Dair Vakıf’) within the context 
of Turkey National Human Development 
Report 2008 that has been prepared by the 
United Nations Development Programme. The 
aims of the survey were to identify the socio-
demographic and socio-economic conditions 
of youth in Turkey, the opportunities, obstacles 
and constraints, as well as discriminatory 
practices the young people encounter in 
their lives—within their family, their social 
environment, workplace and educational 
institutions. In addition, in order to paint as 
comprehensive a picture as possible, we have 
included in this study many realms of being 
young: the participatory mechanisms they 
partake in, their expectations of and visions 
for the future and their values, judgements 
and attitudes. 
The main perspective that shaped the survey 
design was based on the premise that youth, 
as a social category, cannot be approached as 
a homogenous group. The heterogeneity of 
youth can be best appreciated perhaps when 
one analyzes the word itself to notice the in-
nate meaning of “process” that is a part of it 
and makes youth’s heterogeneity self-evident. 
It was assumed that youth is a transition proc-
ess from dependency towards autonomy in 
terms of family, education, work and values. It 
was further assumed that this transition from 
dependency to autonomy would be accom-
panied by a transition from passive to active 
citizenship. The direction of this transition, as 
we describe it, corresponds to a straight line, 
leading to an ideal situation. However, in real-
ity, the socio-demographic, socio-economic 
and cultural disparities among young indi-
viduals bring about different orientations and 
situations. State of Youth Survey aimed at iden-
tifying these disparities and classifying various 
characterizable conditions of youth. Both ob-
stacles and opportunities were always taken 
into consideration, while examining topics 
like family, social life, education, work, values, 
attitudes, and discriminatory practices.  
The survey was conducted among 3,322 
young individuals aged 15-24 in the provinces 
of Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, Tekirdağ, 
Adana, Samsun, Diyarbakır, Kayseri, Trabzon, 
Malatya and Erzurum between 10 May 2007 
and 10 July 2007. 
The Method
The questionnaire items were composed in 
two series of workshops held together with 
the author team of the 2008 National Human 
Development Report and experts. In the 
first series of workshops held by the author 
team, the general conceptual framework 
of the questionnaire, the main topics and 
categories were determined. In the second 
series of workshops, the experts worked on 
the application of these concepts.  
In order to check the validity and the 
applicability of the draft questionnaire, a 
four-staged pilot study was applied. At the 
first stage, the validity of the questionnaire 
was checked; at the second stage, the 
questionnaire format and the flow of 
questions were revised. The last two stages 
of the pilot study were conducted in order to 
determine the content of the trainings for the 
survey takers. The survey takers were trained 
by supervisors. The surveys were conducted 
through face-to-face interviews.        
Quality Check
The questionnaires  were   checked through 
two  different control mechanisms: logic 
control of each set of answers and telephone 
control after fieldwork. All the questionnaires 
were checked  through logic control, while 
ANNEX THREE   Methodology of the quantitative survey 

102
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
30% of the questionnaires were checked 
through re-asking the interviewees  certain 
questions on the phone by the supervisors.
Data Entry and Analysis 
During the data-entry process, the open-
ended questions were coded; then the data 
were entered and cleared. The SPSS statistical 
analysis programme and techniques were 
used in the data entry and analysis. The main 
and secondary variables to be used in data 
analyses were determined together with the 
author team of the Report and the YADA team. 
At the final stage, the tabulations that would 
serve as input for the Report were derived 
and interpreted.  
Sample
Population of Turkey was 67,803,927 at the 
time of the 2000 Census. The projected figure 
for 2007 is over 70 million. Turkey, which is one 
of the most populated countries of Europe, 

103
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
draws attention with its young population. 
According to the data of Turkish Statistics 
Institute (TURKSTAT) 50.32% of the country’s 
total population is under the age of 24. On the 
other hand, the people under the age of 40 
constitute 73.36% of the total population. The 
State of Youth Survey was designed to cover 
young individuals in the 15-24 age bracket.  
In order to represent the whole population 
of 15-24 year olds living in Turkey, the cities 
where the survey was to be implemented was 
determined according to ‘The Nomenclature 
of Territorial Units for Statistics’ (NUTS); and in 
the determination of the quotas concerning 
the population, gender, age and educational 
status sub-groups, the 2000  Census con-
ducted by Turkish Institute of Statistics 
(TURKSTAT) was utilized.
The Survey was conducted among 3,322 
young individuals in the provinces of Istanbul, 
Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, Tekirdağ, Adana, Samsun, 
Diyarbakır, Kayseri, Trabzon, Malatya and 
Erzurum; and was implemented on a sample 
that represents the general characteristics of 
15-24 year-old individuals living in Turkey. The 
sample size by city is illustrated on p.102. 
The samples of the survey were further 
determined by taking into account gender 
groups, age sub-groups, socio-economic 
status (SES) and educational status. In reference 
to the province-based results of 2000 Census 
conducted by TURKSTAT, quotas were applied 
for sex, age sub-groups and educational status 
for each province. While age groups covered 
those who were born between 1983-1985, 
1986-1988 and 1989-1991, educational status 

104
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Secondary 
School 
Graduate
High 
School 
Graduate
Uneducated
Primary 
School 
Graduate
University
Graduate
With 100 + 
employees
OCCUPATION
EDUCATION
Self-employed
Professional (Doctor, lawyer, financial adviser, 
architect, etc)
Owner of a 
manufacturing 
facility
With 50-99 
employees
With 10-49 
employees
With 1-9 
employees
  B	
                 B	
            A	 	
      A	
	
A
  C1	
                 C1	
            B	 	
      B	
	
A
  C2	
                 C1	
            C1		
      B	
	
A
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
A
Consumer durables 
and transportation 
retailers, wholesale 
traders, commercial 
people, jewellers, etc.
With 4+ 
employees
With 0-3 
employees
  C1	
                 C1	
            B	 	
      B	
	
A
  C2	
                 C1	
            C1		
      B	
	
B
Large dealers 
(supermarket, shoe 
store, boutique, etc. 
owner)
With 4+ 
employees
With 0-3 
employees
  C1	
                 C1	
            B	 	
      B	
	
A
  C1	
                 C1	
            C1		
      B	
	
B
Petty dealers (grocer, 
greengrocer, butcher, 
etc.)
With  employees
Work alone
  DE	
                 C2	
            C2		
      C1	
	
C1
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C2	
	
C1
Operating in service 
sector ( tourism, 
finance, construction. 
insurance, etc.)
With 100 + employees
With 50 - 99 employees
With 10 - 49 employees
With 1 - 9 employees
  B	
                 B	
            B	 	
      A	
	
A
  B	
                 B	
            A	 	
      A	
	
A
  B	
                 B	
            B	 	
      A	
	
A
  C1	
                 C1	
            B	 	
      B	
	
A
  C2	
                 C1	
            C1		
      B	
	
B
Vehicle owners / vehicle owner drivers
  DE	
                 C2	
            C2		
      C1	
	
C1
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C2	
	
C1
Large farmers / fishermen / with 4+ employees
Small farmers / fishermen / with 0 - 3 employees
  DE	
                 DE	
            DE		
      C2	
	
C2 

105
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
Secondary 
School 
Graduate
High 
School 
Graduate
Uneducated
Primary 
School 
Graduate
University
Graduate
OCCUPATION
EDUCATION
Salary and daily-wage earners
Professional (Doctor, lawyer, financial adviser, 
architect, etc.)
  	
	
	
	
	
      C1	
	
C1
  DE	
                 C2	
            C2		
      C1	
	
C1
Manual 
workers
Skilled worker, 
foreman, driver, 
headwaiter, etc.
 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
B
 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
B
Non - Executive Positions
Second lieutenant, lieutenant, captain, colonel, 
lieutenant colonel
Non - commissioned officer
Other wage and daily wage earners who are not 
manual workers ( civil servants, office workers in 
private sector, secretary, technician, etc.)
Unskilled worker; 
agricultural worker
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C2	
	
C2
  DE	
                 DE	
            DE		
      DE	
	
C2
Seasonal / temporary worker
Unpaid family workers
  DE	
                 DE	
            DE		
      DE	
	
C2
Not working
Retired
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C1	
	
B
Living on spouse’ s retirement pay
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C1	
	
B
Unemployed
Living on with rental income
  DE	
                 C2	
            C1		
      B	
	
A
Housewives
Student
Executive Positions
Senior private / public sector executives ( member 
of parliament, pilot, governor, province health 
administrator, sub-governor, general, etc.)
Mid-level private/public sector executives 
(assistant pilot, province health administrator 
assistant, etc.)
Senior executives (member of directory board, 
director general, coordinator, director general 
assistant, etc.)
Mid-level executives with 6 or more employees 
(director, department head, director assistant, etc.)
Mid-level executives with 1-5 or more employees 
(director, department head, director assistant, etc.)
  	
	
	
	
	
	
	
A
 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
B
  	
                 B	
            B	 	
      A	
	
A
  	
                 C1	
            C1		
      B	
	
A
  	
                 C2	
            C2		
      C1	
	
B
Low-level executives (chief, team leader, etc.)
  	
                 C2	
            C2		
      C1	
	
C!

106
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
 
Secondary 
School 
Graduate
High 
School 
Graduate
Uneducated
Primary 
School 
Graduate
University
Graduate
OCCUPATION
EDUCATION
Free Lance / Uninsured / Piecework / Part - time Workers
Marketing and trade
  DE	
                 C2	
            C2		
      C1	
	
C1
Skilled seasonal worker (uninsured)
Share cropper
  DE	
                 DE	
            DE		
      C2	
	
C2
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C2	
	
C2
Unskilled seasonal worker (uninsured)
  DE	
                 DE	
            DE		
      DE	
	
Street peddler
  DE	
                 DE	
            DE		
      C2	
	
C2
Cleaning works
  DE	
                 DE	
            DE		
      C2	
	
Babysitting
  DE	
                 DE	
            DE		
      C2	
	
C2
Driver
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C2	
	
C2
Transportation
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C2	
	
C2
Painting
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C2	
	
C1
Hand works
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C2	
	
C1
Cooking and selling pie, cake, etc. at home
  DE	
                 DE	
            C2		
      C2	
	
C1
Tutoring
  	
	
	
	
	
      C2	
	
C1
Translation
  	
	
	
	
	
      C1	
	
B
Drawing projects
  	
	
	
	
	
      C1	
	
B
Software development
  	
	
	
	
	
      C1	
	
B
Consultancy
  	
	
	
	
	
      C1	
	
B
Artist
  DE	
                 C2	
            C1		
      C1	
	
B
Sportsman
  DE	
                 C2	
            C2		
      C1	
	
C1
Security guard
  	
                 DE	
            DE		
      C2	
	
C1
The highest status group to which a family member belonged determined the SES group of the interviewee. 
The sample size by socio-economic status was as such:

107
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
groups covered primary school graduates, 
secondary school graduates, high school 
graduates, university graduates, high school 
students and university students. Sample 
sizes by sex, age sub-groups and educational 
status groups are illustrated on p.103.
Another criterion for the sampling was 
socio-economic status (SES) groups. The SES 
groups to which the interviewees belong 
were set according to the occupational and 
educational level of all the family members. 
Five SES groups (upper strata: A, upper-middle 
strata: B, middle strata: C1, lower middle strata: 
C2 and lower strata: DE) were determined 
as follows, through cross tabulating the 
occupational and educational status of all the 
family members of the interviewee.

108
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Twenty four focus group meetings with young 
people aged 15-24 and four focus groups with 
adults were conducted between 20 May 2007 
and 20 June 2007.  
The focus groups with adults aged between 
35 and 65 were conducted by YADA 
Foundation in Ankara. The focus groups 
with young people were conducted in 
different cities (Ankara, İzmir, Adana), medium 
sized towns (Yozgat, Kütahya, Bitlis), small 
towns (Karaburun, Tatvan, Lüleburgaz) and 
villages (Kırıkköy, Yolyazı), and also among 
different categories of young people such as 
professionals, university students, vocational 
school students, apprentices, unemployed 
university graduates, house wives/girls, youth 
from displaced families in big cities,  Roman 
youth, gays, prisoners, disabled youngsters, 
youth workers, sportsmen/women, village 
youth, small town youth, political party 
members, etc. The target groups and 
questions were determined under the 
supervision of Sociology Professor Esra Burcu 
of Hacettepe University. Ms. Burcu also taught 
the research team about the focus group 
techniques. Dr. Kezban Çelik had participated 
in focus group meetings and analysed the 
focus group results and identified the main 
themes coming from the young people in 
order to use representative quotations in the 
National Human Development Report. 
The following topics were discussed in all 
focus groups: 
1- Receiving education
2- Job selection (what was his/her expectation 
before graduation, what does s/he thinks now, 
what was his/her expectation when starting a 
job, what does s/he thinks now)
3- Living away from the family
4- Marriage, cohabitation
5- Political/civil society participation
6- Popular culture (their view of popular 
culture elements, how are they affected by 
trends and technology? Are their cell phones 
the latest model? Do they follow the fashion? 
How much does popular culture influence 
their decisions? Do they go to bars? How 
do they have fun? Why do they choose that 
specific pastime? What do they think about 
money/power?)
7- Exclusion (Did s/he experience any incidents 
where s/he excluded others or was excluded 
by others for certain traits? Does s/he still face 
exclusion at school, private and social life, 
work life, etc? Where? How? How would s/he 
react if excluded?)
To explore the main attitudes in the above 
fields the following questions were asked in 
all focus groups: 
A. “How” do youth decide?
a. Whose influence plays the most important 
role in decision-making?
a.a. family
a.b. circle of friends
a.c. other social environments
	
b. Can s/he decide on one’s own? Does s/he 
have self-control?
c. What was s/he thinking before s/he started? 
What does s/he think now?
ANNEX FOUR     Methodology of the qualitative survey  

109
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
d. (For men) Did military service have an 
effect? If so, how?
B. How do youth cope with problems? How 
do they find solutions?
a. Which obstacles did s/he face?
b. What does s/he think the nature of the 
obstacles were?
c. How did s/he cope with these obstacles?
d. What opportunities and possibilities does 
s/he think s/he has?
e. Is s/he fatalist? Does s/he read the “power 
of spirit/thoughts” books that have become 
popular recently? Does s/he apply them? 
Does s/he believe in fortune telling?
C. What are the opportunities for youth?
a. Government, family, other… (Does s/he 
consider her/himself lucky?)
D. What efforts do youth make?
a. Can they show the attitude or the strength 
to overcome the obstacles?
b. Can they create opportunities?
E. What are the youth’s future plans and 
expectations?
F.  What do they think about the vision of the 
Report? What “must have” youth issues and 
solutions should be included in the Report?
The research team conducted almost 20 one-
to-one interviews with young people from 
different parts of the country. The team also 
held meetings with nearly 40 academics and 
experts in the area and with approximately 
35 representatives of public institutions such 
as Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Health, 
Ministry of Education, Ministry of Labour and 
others…    

110
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
ANNEX FIVE    25 Quality of Life Indicators163  
Indicator 1: 	
Proportion of births attended by health personnel
Indicator 2: 	
Full immunization rate
Indicator 3: 	
Low birth weight rate
Indicator 4 	
a):  Infant mortality rate (0-28 days and 1-11 months)
	
	
b):  Under-five mortality rate
Indicator 5:	
Modern contraceptive prevalence rate
Indicator 6: 	
Population per doctor and per hospital bed
Indicator 7: 	
Adult literacy rate
Indicator 8: 	
Pre-school education participation rate (36-72 months)
Indicator 9: 	
Proportion of pupils reaching grade 8
Indicator 10: 	
Net enrolment rate in primary education
Indicator 11: 	
Net enrolment rate in secondary education
Indicator 12: 	
Population benefiting within the framework of extended education, number 
of courses and population registered per course
Indicator 13: 	
Proportion and number of children whose births were registered late
Indicator 14: 	
Completed suicide rate and number of attempted suicides
Indicator 15:	
Proportion and number of children who have committed crime
Indicator 16:  	
Number of plaintiff, accused, and court cases for offences committed against 
persons and property, percentage of accused persons
Indicator 17:	
Percentage and number of children who have suffered abuse.
Indicator 18:	
Percentage and number of homeless persons
Indicator 19: 	
Percentage and number of persons under Protection and Special Care
(children [0-17], adult [18-64], elderly [65+], and disabled)
Indicator 20: 	
Percentage and number of persons waiting for Institutional Protection and 
Care 
(children [0-17], adult [18-64], elderly [65+], and disabled)
Indicator 21:	
Percentage and number of persons covered by any Social Security Scheme 
(working, retired, dependent)
Indicator 22: 	
	Percentage and number of persons benefiting from Social Assistance and 
Solidarity Foundations and Law No. 2022
Indicator 23: 	
Number of associations, foundations and unions and number of members and 
unionization rate
Indicator 24: 	
Proportion of households with no access to safe drinking water
Indicator 25: 	
Proportion of households with no access to adequate sanitation

111
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
Since 1990, UNDP has been publishing 
Human Development Indexes (HDI) every 
year together with the Human Development 
Reports. The HDI  is a summary composite 
index that measures a country’s average 
achievements in three   basic aspects of 
Human Development: health, knowledge, 
and a decent standard of living.  Health 
is measured by life expectancy at birth; 
knowledge is measured by a combination 
of the adult literacy rate and the combined 
primary, secondary, and tertiary gross 
enrolment ratio; and standard of living by 
GDP per capita (PPP US$).
Human Development Reports also present 
different types of statistical information: 
statistics  in the  Human Development 
indicator tables, which provide a global 
assessment of country achievements in 
different areas of Human Development, and 
statistical evidence in the thematic analysis 
in the chapters, which may be based on 
international, national or sub-national data.  
Here are the rankings of Turkey among other 
countries in various Human Development 
indicator tables: 
ANNEX SIX    Where Is Turkey according to UNDP 
	
	
Human Development Indicators?
Ranking among 177 Countries
Youth unemployment rate, total (% of labour force aged 15-24) (2006)
10
Youth unemployment rate (female rate as % of male rate) (2006)
11
Public expenditure on health (% of GDP) (2004)
41
Internet users (per 1,000 people) (2005)
52
Tertiary students in science, engineering, manufacturing and construction (% of tertiary students) (1999-2005)
54
Youth literacy rate (% aged 15-24) (1995-2005)
66
Gross tertiary enrolment ratio, female (%)
74
Net secondary enrolment rate (%) (2005)
74
Male Combined Gross Enrolment Ratio for Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Education (%) (2005)
77
Youth literacy rate, female (% aged 15-24) (2005)
78
 Human Development Index (2005)
84
Youth literacy rate (ratio of female rate to male rate) (2005)
85
Education Index
104
Public expenditure on education (% of  ) (2002-2005)
105
Combined Gross Enrolment Ratio for Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Education (%) (2005)
108
Gross tertiary enrolment ratio (ratio of female ratio to male ratio) (2005)
109
Gross secondary enrolment ratio, female (%) (2005)
110
Female Combined Gross Enrolment Ratio for Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Education (%) (2005)
115
Gross secondary enrolment ratio (ratio of female ratio to male ratio) (2005)
138

112
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
ANNEX SEVEN     The position of youth in the labour 
	
	
        market in OECD countries
164 

113
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 

114
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
ENDNOTES	
1 	
Global Human Development Report 2000, Human Rights and Human Development, 
UNDP  
2 	
Education Reform Initiative is a project aiming to form a network of stakeholders in Turkish 
education, including state agencies, academic circles, schools, and non-governmental 
organizations, supported by Sabancı University, Open Society Institute, and Mother Child 
Education Foundation (AÇEV Anne Çocuk Eğitim Vakfı). 
3	
Unless otherwise indicated, the statistical data used in this Report were taken from sources 
that were published before the 2007 Population Census.
4	
Education Reform Iniative is a project of the Istanbul Policy Centre of  Sabancı University.
5	
Educational Reform Initiative, “Call for the to-be-Members of the 60th Government”, July 
2007. The document can be reached at http://www.erg.sabanciuniv.edu/index.html 
6	
Sakiko Fukuda Parr and A.K. Shiva Kumar (eds.), Readings in Human Development: 
Concepts, Measures and Policies for a Development Paradigm, 2nd edition, New Delhi, 
Oxford University Press, 2005, p. 35.
7	
Turkish Statistics Institute (TURKSTAT), Household Labour Force Survey 2006 data. 
8	
Doç. Dr. İsmail Tufan and Özgür Arun, Türkiye Özürlüler Araştırması 2002 İleri Analiz Raporu 
(Turkey Handicapped People Research 2002 Advanced Analysis Report), The Scientific and 
Technical Research Council of Turkey (TÜBİTAK) and State Planning Organization (SPO), 
Ankara, January 2006.
9	
Turkish Statistics Institute (TURKSTAT), Household Labour Force Survey 2006 data.
10 	 The figure was provided by the Ministry of Justice, in July 2007. 
11 	 A. Çarkoğlu et al., Siyasi Partilerde Reform (Reforming the Political Parties), in Turkish, 
İstanbul, Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation (TESEV) publications, 2000.
12	
Ministry of National Education, National Education Statistics for Formal Education 2006-
2007, Ankara, 2007.  
13	
Focus Groups analysis clearly indicated these perceptions. 
14	
This data is based on Turkish Statistics Institute’s Household Labour Force Database 2006 
projections.  
15	
Turkish Statistics Institute, Household Labour Force Survey Database, 2006. 
16	
Report of the UN Secretary-General to the General Assembly, “Implementation of the 
World Programme of Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond,” 12 July 2001. 
17	
In Turkey there are four institutions officially recognized as operating in the field of youth 
according to the official papers presented to the EC during the negotiation process. 
They are Turkish National Agency, Social Services and Child Protection Agency (SHÇEK), 
the Ministry of National Education (MoNE) and General Directorate of Youth and Sports 
(GSGM). Yet, there are 13 ministries and 23 related institutions whose policies directly 
affect the lives of the young. 
18	
National Youth Councils are umbrella institutions that bring together different youth 
institutions. In many countries they are formally recognized by the state and play active 
role in determining youth policies.
19	
The number of youth related NGOs operating at the country-level is 60, and there are 
some 120 organizations whose activities affect young people in one way or another. 
Private sector involvement in youth issues is also increasing through companies’ support 

115
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
for corporate social responsibility projects. 
20	
State Planning Organization, 9th Development Plan (2007-2013), Ankara, 2006.
21	
From a focus group meeting with youth-NGO members/volunteers in Ankara, May 2007.
22	
GSGM 2006 budget proposal and 2006 consolidated budget.
23	
2006 GSGM budget distribution to departments: Directorate of Administrative and 
Financial Affairs Department (3%), Direcotrate of Personnel and Training Department 
(0.1%), Directorate of Foreign Affairs Department (0.03%), Directorate of A.P.K Department 
(0.4%), Aid to Provincial Directorates (56.43%), Sports Federations (28.38%), Directorate of 
Facilities Department (0.4%), Directorate of Health Affairs Department (0.25%), Directorate 
of Sports Training Department (0.4%), Directorate of Youth Services Department (1%), 
Directorate of Sports Institutions Department (1%), Directorate of Sports Activities (7.5%), 
Other (1%).
24	
The Youth Social Development Programme initiated through these funds aims to establish 
sustainable structures that support the bringing up of active, participatory, entrepreneurial 
youth by enabling the social development of Turkish youth. This US$ 1.93 million fund is 
being used between 2006-2008.
25	
From a focus group meeting with eight participants in one of the villages of Lüleburgaz, 
in the Thracian Region, June 2007.
26	
Ideas communicated in the last three concluding paragraphs are drawn heavily from the 
UNESCO document, Empowering Youth Through National Policies: UNESCO’s Contribution, 
which was published in 2004.
27	
26th clause. 
28	
Article 28.
29	
Article 13. 
30	
Article 2 of Protocol 1. 
31	
42nd clause. 
32	
This increase is related with the increase in teachers’ wages to an extent. According to the 
OECD Education at a Glance 2007 Report, “OECD countries with relatively small education 
budgets (e.g. Mexico, Portugal and Turkey) tend to devote a larger proportion of current 
educational expenditure to the compensation of personnel and a smaller proportion to 
services that are sub-contracted, such as support services (e.g. maintenance of school 
buildings), ancillary services (e.g. preparation of meals for students) and renting of school 
buildings and other facilities.” 
33	
Ministry of National Education, National Education Statistics: Formal Education 2006-
2007. 
34	
Ibid.
35	
Until 1997, compulsary primary education in Turkey was only five years.  
36	
Net enrolment ratios are used. Net Enrolment Ratio is obtained by dividing the number 
of students of a theoretical age group enrolled in a specific level of education by the 
population in that age group.
37	
These data  are from State Statistics Institute. However due to constantly shifting inter-
regional migration patterns and regional fertility trends these data should be considered 
tentative.  
38	
70% get into the early childhood education system in Mexico, while in European Union 
countries it is almost 100% of the children.
39	
AÇEV webpage (http://www.acev.org/7cokgec/onem.asp)  accessed on 8 June 2007.
40	
Although first established in 1974, these schools have not shown good performance. 
To date, only 70,000 people have received electricity technician certificates from these 

116
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
institutes, according to the sources of the Ministry of Education.
41	
Turkish Statistical Institute, Houseld Labour Force Survey, 2006. 
42	
From a focus group meeting with young unqualified workers in Adana.
43	
More information is available on the Ministry of Education Official Web Page, (https://
www.meb.gov.tr) 
44	
State made changes to the university student selection exam (ÖSS) in 2006 and there are 
ongoing efforts to change the student selection and placement criteria and processes. 
The newly proposed model envisages multiple exams at the end of each year in 
secondary school and using the cumulative scores from these exams for placement in the 
university. 
45	
In 2007 ÖSS (university entrance exam), among 1,600,000 valid test papers, 47,000 scored 
zero. Number of those that scored zero was 25,000 in 2006.
46	
OECD, Education at a Glance, 2007 Report.
47	
This is an April 2006-updated data. Turkish government is planning to open 17 new public 
universities in the forthcoming years in order to make every city in Turkey have at least 
one university. Nine of these 17 universities will be opened in the 2007-2008 education 
year.
48	
Approximately 1 million of these university students are Open University—distant learning 
students. 
49	
OECD, Education at a Glance 2007 Report. 
50	
OECD, Education at a Glance 2007 Report. This is mainly due to the opening of tens of new 
universities in the last five years.
51	
Ministry of National Education, National Education Statistics 2006-2007: Formal 
Education. 
52	
OECD, Education at a Glance 2007 Report.
53	
Üner Kırdar, Humanizing the Digital Age, 2007, p. 5.
54	
U.S. Department of Education, “Progress in International Reading Literacy Study 2001,” 
2001.
55	
The four countries worse than Turkey were Mexico, Brazil, Indonesia and Tunisia. Serbia 
and Uruguay were just above Turkey.
56	
In depth interview in Ankara.
57	
Hakan Ercan, ILO Youth Unemployment Report, 2007.
58	
Ibid.
59	
More details on this can be found in the ‘Youth Unemployment’ Chapter. 
60	
2007 Report by Hakan Ercan on Youth Employment, originally prepared for the World 
Bank. 
61	
If vocational school graduates choose a department that is not directly related to their 
vocational field, a very low secondary school achievement coefficient is applied to their 
exam score. This situation renders them more disadvantaged compared to standard high 
school graduates.
62	
But the student can go to a higher–level vocational college without taking the exam. A 
student who attended a general high school is at a greater advantage in the university 
exam. 
63	
Hakan Ercan, ILO Youth Unemployment Report, 2007.
64	
OECD, Programme for International Student Assesment (PISA), 2003.
65	
According to Turkey’s Statistical Yearbook of 2006, the incidence of extreme poverty (the 
percentage of the population living on less than US$ 1 a day) is very low, at less than 

117
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
0.02%, but as the poverty threshold is raised, poverty rates also increase dramatically, with 
15.42% of the households, and 20.5% of the individuals living on less than US$ 4.30 a 
day.
66	
Education Reform Iniative is a project of the Istanbul Policy Centre of  Sabancı University.
67	
Educational Reform Initiative, “Call for the to-be-Members of the 60th Government”, July 
2007. The document can be reached at http://www.erg.sabanciuniv.edu/index.html 
68	
United Nations General Assembly, S–27/2 A World Fit for Children, New York, May 2002.
69	
N. Otaran et al.,  A Gender Review in Education: Turkey 2003, United Nations Children’s 
Fund (UNICEF), Ankara, 2003.
70	
Hacettepe University Institute of Population Studies, Turkey Demographic and Health 
Survey, Ankara, 2003.
71	
Ibid.
72	
Kardam, F. Yüksel, İ. Deren, M. et al. The Dynamics of Honour Killings in Turkey, United Nations 
Population Fund (UNFPA), Ankara 2005.
73	
From Haberler.com on http://www.haberler.com/tore-cinayetleri-arastirmasi-haberi, 
2007.
74	
The Hacettepe Institute of Population Studies, Turkey Demographic and Health Survey, 
2003. 
75	
Ibid.
76	
Ayşe Gül Altınay and Yeşim Arat, Violence Against Women in Turkey, 2007.
77	
Turkey Demographic and Health Survey 2003.
78	
Ministry of Health, Ankara, 2005.
79	
Turkey Demographic and Health Survey 2003, op. cit.
80	
The  Family and Child Training Programme (FACT) is a programme developed by Turkey’s 
Ministry of National Education (MoNE) General Directorate of Non–formal Education with 
the support of UNICEF to positively influence parental behaviour towards children under 
the age of six.  The inter–sectoral team behind FACT also includes the Social Services and 
Child Protection Agency, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, 
the Mother and Child Education Foundation (AÇEV), educationalists from the university 
system and a number of NGOs involved with family welfare and child protection in Turkey. 
To date an estimated 100,000 parents with pre–school–aged children have been reached 
with training and information. Follow–up testing showed that participants spend more 
time with their children, take them to health centres for regular check–ups and use 
positive disciplinary methods in place of physical punishment.
81	
H. Yılmaz, The Quality of Fiscal Adjustment in Turkey: The Case of Social Expenditures, 
2006.
82	
Ibid.
83	
Ibid. 
84	
From an interview with Ankara Alcohol and Substance Addiction Treatment and Training 
Centre (AMATEM) officials in June 2007. 
85	
From a focus group in Lüleburgaz with male workers employed in unskilled jobs, June 
2007.
86	
Hakan Ercan’s World Bank background paper on a Turkish youth employment study and 
some cited work in there provide some justification for these claims.  
87	
All rates are calculated by using TURKSTAT data available at www.turkstat.gov.tr . 
88	
This and the following section drew heavily on Hakan Ercan’s ILO report’s chapters one and two. 
Ercan, Hakan (2007) / Youth Employment in Turkey / Ankara: International Labour Office. 

118
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
89	
The targets are 60% for women and 50% for older workers between the ages of 55-64. Not 
all EU countries have reached the targets either and the targets have been revised twice 
already. 
90	
Hakan Ercan, background chapter, World Bank Report on Youth Unemployment, 2007. 
91	
Non-institutional civilian population comprises all the population excluding the residents 
of schools, dormitories, kindergartens, rest homes for elderly persons, special hospitals, 
military barracks and recreation quarters for officers.
92	
Hakan Ercan, background chapter, World Bank Report on Youth Unemployment, 2007. 
93	
These support practices are also responsible for the low average education and skill 
level of the Turkish population. They confined a huge part of the labour force in the low-
productivity agricultural sector for decades. Children became unpaid family workers, and 
five years of basic education was regarded as enough. (Daughters were deemed to need 
even less education – 12% of all women in the labour force are illiterate, 50% have only 
received primary education.) Compulsory schooling was raised to eight years only in 
1997. 
94	
Turkish labour economists prefer to use figures for the urban labour market to make 
meaningful comparisons with the EU.        
95	
Mehmet Taşcı, and Aysit Tansel, “Youth unemployment duration in Turkey,” METU Studies 
in Development, Vol.32, No.2, pp. 517-545.  
96	
World Bank, Turkey Education Sector Study. Sustainable pathways to an effective, equitable 
and efficient education system for pre-school through secondary school education, 
2005.
97	
Tunalı et al, 2004; World Bank, 2006.
98	
OECD, Economic Survey of Turkey 2006, Paris. The report assesses the recent macro-
economic developments, and praises Turkey for its recent success in its growth rates and 
falling inflation rates. At the same time, it prescribes strong (and unpalatable) medicine 
in order to remove the causes of remaining macro-economic fragility. Its labour-market 
related policy proposals were not received well by the workers’ unions.
99	
 Hakan Ercan,“Labour markets and expected demand for vocational education in Turkey, 
2003”. 
100	 The Religious Affairs General Directorate.
101	 Ayşe Akpınar and Hakan Ercan, “Vocational and technical education system report: Turkey 
2001”, Turin: European Training Foundation, 2003.
102	 The main authority for the Turkish vocational training system is the Ministry of National 
Education (MoNE) responsible for the training of skilled workers, technicians, apprentices 
and others in industry, tourism and trade. Within the tertiary education sector, the Council 
of Higher Education (YÖK) is responsible for two-year Technician Training Centres that 
have been set up as part of universities throughout the country.
103	 Hakan Ercan, 2003; Milena Corradini, H. Fragoulis and M. Badescu, Achieving the Lisbon 
goals: the contribution of vocational education and training in Turkey. Turin: European 
Training Foundation, 2004. 
104	 İnsan Tunalı et al (2004), Employment Background Study, European Training Foundation. 
105	 Freely draws upon  Ercan’s study  prepared for FAO on rural youth. 
106	 Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics.
107	 This analysis does not concern itself with the lifelong learning needs of older workers 
which are different from those of the young labour force participants. 
108	 Although, the best one should hope for is the level that prevails in Greece or Italy, for 

119
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
example: 20 to 30% range. This is because of rigid employment protection legislations for 
the ‘insiders’ and a consequent tacit societal acceptance of the informal tax-evasive labour 
contracts.   
109	 These statements came out from all the focus group meetings, except from the one with 
political party members. 
110	 The age for being elected as mayor or provincial general assembly member is 25.
111	 Following the elections on 22 July 2007, 52 women deputies entered the parliament. This 
number is twice as much compared to the previous term but this rate is still low when you 
take into consideration that there are a total of 550 deputies in the parliament.
112	 From the focus group meeting with youth-NGO members/volunteers in Ankara, May 
2007.
113	 Wishes brought forward by young people themselves during various focus group 
meetings.
114	 From the focus group meeting with youth-NGO members/volunteers in Ankara, May 
2007. 
115	 Shelley H. Billig. 2000. “Research on K-12 School-Based Service Learning: The Evidence 
Builds.”  Phi Delta Kappan, May 2000. 
116	 From the focus group meeting with youth-NGO members/volunteers in Ankara, May 
2007.
117	 From the focus group meeting with Local Youth Councils’ members, May 2007.
118	 Ibid.
119	 Ibid.
120	 The official name for the National Agency is Prime Ministry State Planning Organization 
Directorate of European Union Education and Youth Programmes Centre.
121	 The National Agency supports education and work abroad  in which the financing is 
done by EU funds. Over 15 million Euros was provided in 2003-2007 for the financing 
of scholarships. Youth who are determined to undertake their studies can realize their 
aspirations  with these scholarships after a series of exams and interviews.
122	 State of Youth Survey.
123 According to TURKSTAT’s latest estimations made before the 2007 Population Census, 
Turkey’s population growth rate was 1.26%.  TURKSTAT’s projections based on the 
same estimations also show that the population growth rate will continue to slow 
down significantly in the next decade and decrease to nearly 1%. New estimations and 
projections on the population growth rate will later follow, according to the results of the 
2007 Population Census.
124	 These statistics are taken from the editorial of the Turkish monthly economic magazine 
Capital’s November 2003 issue that was commemorating the 80th year of the Republic.   
125	 Its three largest merchandise export items are textiles, automotive, and consumer 
durables. 
126	 Can Fuat Gürlesel, Türkiye’nin Kapısındaki Fırsat: 2025’e Doğru Nüfus, Eğitim ve Yeni 
Açılımlar (The Opportunity at Turkey’s Gate: Population, Education and New Directions 
towards 2025),  October 2004.
127	 Cem Behar, “The General Panorama of Turkey’s Population: 1923-2023,” in C. Behar (ed.) 
Turkey’s Window of Opportunity: Demographic Transition and Its Implications. Istanbul: 
TÜSIAD (Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen Association), 1999.
128	 Their highest proportion in the population was 20.4% in 1990.
129	 İnsan Tunalı, “Labour market implications of the demographic window of opportunity,” 

120
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Forum, December1996.
130	 This fact is also touched upon in UNFPA State of World Population 2007 , Unleashing the 
Potential of Urban Growth.
131	 Cem Behar, “The General Panorama of Turkey’s Population: 1923-2023,” 1999.
132	 Trends quoted here are based on the study of Can Fuat Gürlesel, Türkiye’nin Kapısındaki 
Fırsat: 2025’e Doğru Nüfus, Eğitim ve Yeni Açılımlar (The Opportunity at Turkey’s Gate: 
Population, Education and New Directions towards 2025), October 2004.
133	 From the Speech of Basile J. Neiadas, CEO, OPAP SA, Greece, at the OECD Forum on 
Balancing Globalisation in Paris on 22-23 May 2006.   
134	 TÜBİTAK, Vision 2023 Eğitim Ara Raporu (Education Intermission Report).
135	 UNESCO, Education For All Global Monitoring Report 2007: Strong Foundations Early 
Childhood Care and Education.
136	 Kırdar, Humanizing the Digital Age, p.25.
137	 UIS Bulletin on Science and Technology Statistics, April 2004, Issue No. 1
138	 ILO, Global Employment Trends for Youth , 2006.
139	 The YEN was created under the impetus of the Millennium Declaration, where the 
largest gathering of Heads of State and Government ever met at the Millennium 
Summit in September 2000 and resolved to “ develop and implement strategies that 
give young people everywhere a real chance to find decent and productive work.” YEN 
has been strengthened by a series of UN General Assembly Resolutions, the December 
2002 Resolution on promoting youth employment (A/RES/57/165) and Resolution A/
RES/58/133, of January 2004, concerning policies and programmes involving youth and 
the February 2006 Commission for Social Development resolution on Youth Employment 
(E/CN.5/2006/L.3). These resolutions encourage countries to prepare National Action Plans 
(NAPs) on youth employment with the assistance of the ILO, other UN agencies and the 
World Bank as well as the participation of young people. Info from www.ilo.org/yen 
140	 Nineteen countries have stepped forward to volunteer as Lead Countries for the YEN to 
share experiences, and led the way in formulating action plans on youth employment: 
Azerbaijan, Brazil, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, Georgia, Indonesia, 
Islamic Republic of Iran, Jamaica, Mali, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Syria, 
Turkey, Uganda and the United Kingdom.
141	 David J. McKenzie, “A Profile of the World’s Young Developing Country Migrants,” Institute 
for the Study of Labour Discussion Paper Series No. 2948, July 2007.
142	 The number of young people living in poverty is not only a problem of the developing 
world. Australia has the highest rates of child poverty behind Russia, the USA and Italy, and 
it will take just a little time before child poverty becomes youth poverty. Bradburry&Janti, 
2001; Neville, 2002: 8 from Judith Bessant, Principles for Developing Youth Policy, Policy 
Studies, Vol. 26, No.1, 2005, p.105. (http://www.un.org/esa/socdev/unyin/iyd2006.htm)
143	 United Nations Population Fund, UNFPA State of World Population 2003.
144	 UN, 1995.
145	 World Bank, Turkey Poverty Policy Recommendations, Vol. II, August 2005.
146	 Ayşe Buğra and Çağlar Keyder, New Poverty and the Changing Welfare Regime of Turkey, 
2003.
147	 Ibid.  
148	 Ibid.  
149	 Buğra and Keyder, New Poverty and the Changing Welfare Regime of Turkey, 2003.
150	 SPO and UNDP, Millennium Development Goals Report, Turkey 2005.

121
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
151	 İbid. 
152	 Data obtained from TURKSTAT’s 2007 census results are specified with an *, all other relevant 
data are the TURKSTAT population and development findings of 2006.
153	 The data in this section are taken from the TURKSTAT population and development 
	
findings, except the GNP.
154	 The data in this section are taken from TURKSTAT population and development 
	
findings, 2006 (http://www.turkstat.gov.tr).
155	 The data in this section are taken from TURKSTAT population and development 
	
Findings, 2006 (http://www.turkstat.gov.tr).
156	 This number is for the year 2004
157	 Statistics on labour force are taken from TURKSTAT Household Labour Force Survey, 2006
158	 Data on poverty are taken from Turkish Statistics Institute’s Survey on Poverty, conducted 
in 2006.
159	 Level 2 Statistical Regional Units from TURKSTAT data. Sources: The 2008 Programme, State 
Planning Oranization; TURKSTAT; and Ministry of Finance.
160	 Data are obtained from TURKSTAT 2007 census results.
161	 Data are obtained from TURKSTAT Household Labour Force Suvey results of October 
2007.
162	 Schooling ratios of the year 2005-2006 were taken from the TURKSTAT education statistics. 
Latest population projections according to results of General Population Census in 2000 
year were used.
163	 Provided by UNICEF Turkey Office. 
164	 Quintini, G. and Martin, S. (2006) ‘Starting Well or Losing Their Way? The Position of Youth 
in the Labour Market in OECD Countries’, OECD Social, Employment and Migration Working 
Papers, 39.

122
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Background Papers
Acar, Hakan. 2006. “AB Sürecindeki Türkiye’de Gençlik Politikası Nasıl Yapılanmalı?” (“How Should 
Turkey’s Youth Policy be Structured during the EU Process?”) 
Arkadaş, Adem. 2004. “Follow-up Situational Report on Children’s Rights in Turkey with Special 
Focus on Juvenile Justice”. 
Aydınlıgil, Seyhan. 2007. “Türkiye’de Gençlik ve Kalkınma ‘Yapabilirliklerinin’ Genişletilmesi 
Üzerine” (“Youth in Turkey and the Enhancement of Development Capabilities”).
Bilir, Nazmi. 2007a. “Çalışma Hayatında bir Risk Grubu: Genç Çalışanlar” (“Young Employees: A 
Risk Group in Working Life”).
Bilir, Nazmi. 2007b. “Sağlıklı Yaşam, Sigara ve Gençlik” (”Healthy Living, Cigarette Smoking and 
Youth”).
Çarkoğlu, Ali. 2007. “Youth and Participation in Turkey”. 
Çeltikçi, Ebrize. 2006. “Gençlik, Demokrasi ve Kalkınma.” (“Youth, Democracy and Develop-
ment”).
Education Reform Initiative, 2007. “Recommendations on Education”.
Özcebe, Hilal. 2007a. “Gençler ve Şiddet” (“Youth and Violence”).
Özcebe, Hilal. 2007b. “Gençler, Yaralanma, Korunma ve Kontrol” (“Youth, Injury, Protection and 
Control”).
References
Akpınar, Ayşe, and Hakan Ercan. 2003. “Vocational and Technical Education System Report: 
Turkey 2001”. Turin: European Training Foundation.
 
Ankara Ticaret Odası (Ankara Chamber of Commerce). 2007. “Kayıtsız Gençler” (“Unregistered 
Youth”). Ankara. [http://www.atonet.org.tr/yeni/index.php?p=1082&l=1]. August 2007.
Ansell, Nicola. 2005. Children, Youth and Development. London: Routledge. 
BIBLIOGRAPHY

123
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
Bamber, John, and Hamish Murphy. 1999. “Youth Work: The Possibilities for Critical Practice”. 
Journal of Youth Studies 2 (2): 227-242.
Behar, Cem. 1999. “The General Panorama of Turkey’s Population: 1923-2023” (Behar, Cem (ed.). 
Turkey’s Window of Opportunity: Demographic Transition and Its Implications. Istanbul: TUSIAD 
Publications, 1999.
Bessant, Judith. 2004. “Mixed Messages: Youth Participation and Democratic Practice”.  Australian 
Journal of Political Science. 39 (2): 387-404. 
Bessant, Judith. 2005. “Principles for Developing Youth Policy: Kant’s Categorical Imperative 
and Developmental Ethics”. Policy Studies. 20 (1): 103-116.
Bessant, Judith. 2003. “Youth Participation: A New Mode of Government”. Policy Studies. 24 
(2/3): 87-100.
Birikim Dergisi (Birikim Magazine). 2005. Halleriyle İmajlarıyla Gençlik (Youth with Their Attitudes 
and Images). No. 196.
Buğra, Ayşe, and Çağlar Keyder. 2003. “New Poverty and the Changing Welfare Regime of 
Turkey”. Report prepared for the UNDP, Ankara.
Burcu, Esra, 1998. “Gençlik Teorilerinin Sınıflandırılmasına İlişkin Bir Çalışma” (A Study on the 
Categorization of Youth Theories). Sosyoloji Araştırmaları Dergisi (Journal of Sociology Studies). 
1(1-2): 105-136. 
Çarkoğlu, Ali et al. 2000. “Siyasi Partilerde Reform” (“Reforming the Political Parties”). Istanbul: 
TESEV Publications.
Çelik, Kezban. 2001. The Evolution of the Value of Child in Turkey: Questioning the Roles of the State 
and the Family. Unpublished MSc. Thesis.
DİE (Turkish Statistical Institute/ former TURKSTAT). 2004. “Household Budget Survey 2002”. 
Ankara.
Education Reform Initiative. 2007. “Call for the Politicians of the to-be-60th Government”. July 
2007 (http://www.erg.sabanciuniv.edu/index.html).
Ercan, Hakan et al. 2004. “Achieving the Lisbon Goals: The Contribution of  Vocational Education 
and Training in Turkey”. Turin: European Training Foundation.
Ercan, Hakan. 2003. “Labour Markets and Expected Demand for Vocational Education in Turkey: 
A Demographic Perspective”. Paper presented at the International Conference on Innovation in 
Higher Education, Kiev, May 2003.
Ercan, Hakan. 2007. “ILO Youth Unemployment Report”. Originally prepared for the World 
Bank. 

124
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Fukuda-Parr, Sakiko, and A.K. Shiva Kumar.  2005. Readings in Human Development: Concepts, 
Measures and Policies for a Development Paradigm. New Delhi: Oxford University Press.
Fukuda-Parr, Sakiko, and Richard Jolly. 2005. “Growth for Human Development?” Sakiko 
Fukuda-Parr and A.K. Shiva Kumar (eds.), Readings in Human Development, Second Edition. New 
Delhi: Oxford University Press. 
Genç Net (ARI Movement). 2002. Türk Gençliği ve Katılım: Katıl ve Geleceğini Yarat I (Turkish Youth 
and Participation: Participate and Create Your Future I). Istanbul.
_____ (ARI Movement and Konrad Adenauer Foundation). 2005. Gençlik, Toplum Liderliği ve 
Sosyal Sermaye: Katıl ve Geleceğini Yarat IV (Youth, Social Leadership and Social Capital: Participate 
and Create Your Future IV).Ankara.
_____(ARI Social Participation and Development Foundation). 2003. Türk Gençliği ve Katılım: 
Katıl ve Geleceğini Yarat II (Turkish Youth and Participation: Participate and Create Your Future II ). 
Istanbul. 
_____(ARI Social Participation and Development Foundation). 2004. Türk Gençliği ve Katılım: 
Katıl ve Geleceğini Yarat III (Turkish Youth and Participation: Participate and Create Your Future III). 
Istanbul. 
Gürlesel, Can Fuat. 2004. ”Türkiye’nin Kapısındaki Fırsat: 2025’e Doğru Nüfus, Eğitim ve Yeni 
Açılımlar” (“The Opportunity at Turkey’s Gate: Population, Education and New Directions 
towards 2025”). Education Reform Initiative, Istanbul. 
Hacettepe University Institute of Population Studies. 2003. “Turkey Demographic and Health 
Survey 2003”. Ankara.
ILO (International Labour Organization). 2006. “Global Employment Trends for Youth.” 
Geneva.
Kağıtçıbaşı, Çiğdem. 1990. İnsan Aile Kültür (The Humankind, Family and Culture). Istanbul: Remzi 
Publications. 
Kardam, F. et al. 2005. “The Dynamics of Honour Killings in Turkey”. United Nations Population 
Fund (UNFPA), Ankara.
Kazgan, Gülten. 2007. İstanbul Gençliği: Gençlik Değerleri Araştırması (Istanbul Youth: A Survey of 
Youth Values). Istanbul: Bilgi University Publications. 
Kırdar, Üner. 2007. Humanizing the Digital Age. United Nations Publications. 
Konrad Adanauer Foundation. 1998. “Suskun Kitle Büyüteç Altında” (“The Silent Mass Under 
the Magnifying Glass”).
Lewis, Anne (ed.). 2003. Shaping the Future of American Youth: Youth Policy in the 21st Century. 
Washington DC: American Youth Policy Forum. 

125
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
McKenzie, David J. 2007. “A Profile of the World’s Young Developing Country Migrants”. Institute 
for the Study of Labour Discussion Paper Series No. 2948, July 2007.
Milli Eğitim Bakanlığı (Turkish Republic Ministry of National Education). 2007. “National 
Education Statistics 2006-2007: Formal Education”. Ankara.
Moller, Herbert. 1968. “Youth as a Force in the Modern World”. Comparative Studies in Society 
and History, 10 (3): 237-260.
Neidas, Basile J. 2006. Speech delivered at the OECD Forum on Balancing Globalisation in Paris 
on 22-23 May 2006.   
Neyzi, Leyla. 2001. “Object or Subject? The Paradox of Youth in Turkey”. International Middle East 
Studies, 33 (3): 411- 432.
OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development). 2006. “Economic Survey 
of Turkey 2006”. Paris.
_____. 2004. “PISA (Programme for International Student Assessment) 2003 Assessment: 
Problem Solving for Tomorrow’s World”. Paris. 
_____. 2007a. “Factbook 2007: Economic, Environmental and Social Statistics”. Paris.
_____. 2007b. “Education at a Glance 2007—OECD Indicators”. Paris. 
Otaran, N. et al. 2003. “A Gender Review in Education: Turkey 2003”. United Nations Children’s 
Fund (UNICEF), Ankara. 
Özbay, Haluk, and Emine Öztürk. 1993. Gençlik (Youth). Yeni Yüzyıl Books.
ÖZ-GE-DER / Özgürlüğünden Yoksun Gençlerle Dayanışma Derneği (Association for 
Solidarity with Imprisoned Youth). 2005. ”Islahevleri ve Cezaevlerinde Tutuklu ve Hükümlü 
Durumda Bulunan Çocukların Sosyal ve Yasal Koşullarının İyileştirilmesi” (Improvement of the 
Social and Legal Conditions of Detained and Convicted Children in Correctional Facilities). 
Ankara. 
Pyvis, David. 1992. ”Is Youth Policy Really New?” Youth Studies Australia 11 (1): 14. 
Raffo, Carlo, and Michelle Reeves. 2000. “Youth Transitions and Social Capital: Developments 
in Social Capital Theory”. Journal of Youth Studies 3 (2): 147-166.
Roth, Jodie L., and Jeanne Brooks-Gunn. 2003. “What Exactly Is a Youth Development 
Programme? Answers From Research and Practice”. Applied Developmental Science 7 (2): 94-
111. 
Sivil Toplum Kuruluşlarında Gönüllülük ve Gençlik (Volunteerism and Youth in Civil Society 
Organizations). 2002. Symposium on Civil Society Organizations in Turkey. Istanbul: The History 

126
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Foundation Publications.
SPO (State Planning Organization) and UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 
2005. “Turkey Millennium Development Goals Report”. Ankara.
Taşçı, Mehmet, and Aysıt Tansel. “Youth Unemployment Duration in Turkey”. METU Studies in 
Development 32 (2): 517-545.  
TESEV (Turkey Economic and Social Studies Foundation). 2005. “Üniversite Gençliği  Değerler 
Araştırması” (“Values of University Youth Survey”). Istanbul.
Torun Reid, Fatma. 2002. Unutkan Erkekler Hadileyen Anneler: Yaşamın İçinden Psikoloji (Forgetful 
Men and Their Controlling Mothers: Psychology from Everyday Life). Istanbul: Sistem Publications.
Tufan, İsmail, and Özgür Arun. 2006. “Turkey Handicapped People Research 2002: Advanced 
Analysis Report”. The Scientific and Technical Research Council of Turkey (TÜBİTAK) and State 
Planning Organization (DPT), Ankara.
Tunalı, İnsan et al. 2004. “Employment Background Study.” Turin: European Training Founda-
tion. 
Tunalı, İnsan . 1996. “Labour Market Implications of the Demographic Window of Opportunity.” 
Forum December 1996.
Tunalı et al. 2006. “Employment Background Study”, Turin, European Training Foundation, 2004; 
World Bank, Turkey Labour Market Study, 2006. 
Turkish Republic Ministry of Health. 2003. “Health Transformation Programme”. Ankara. 
TURKSTAT (Turkish Statistical Institute). 2006. Household Labour Force Survey database. 
[http://www.tuik.gov.tr/isgucu/Basla1.do]. July 2007.
_____. 2007. Turkey’s Statistical Yearbook of 2006. Ankara.
TÜBİTAK (The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey). 2003. “Vision 2023: 
Education Intermission Report”. Ankara. 
Türk Sosyal Bilimler Derneği (Turkish Social Sciences Association). 2005. “Gençlik, AB ve Zıt 
Hisler: Bedenini İsterim ama Ruhunu Asla” (“Youth, EU and Conflicting Feelings: I Want Your 
Body But Never Your Soul”).
UIS Bulletin on Science and Technology Statistics. 2004. Issue No. 1, April 2004.
UN (United Nations). 2001. Implementation of the World Programme of Action for Youth to 
the Year 2000 and Beyond (A/56/180). Report of the United Nations’ Secretary-General to the 
General Assembly, New York. [http://daccessdds.un.org/doc/UNDOC/GEN/N01/457/53/PDF/
N0145753.pdf?OpenElement]. May 2007.

127
 TURKEY 2008 /  HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 
_____. 2001. The United Nations Youth Agenda: Empowering Youth for Development and Peace. 
_____. 2004. “World Youth Development Report 2003: The Global Situation of Young People”. 
United Nations Publication.
_____. 2005. “World Youth Report: Young People Today and in 2015”. United Nations 
Publication.
_____. 2001. The United Nations Youth Agenda: Empowering Youth for Development and 
Peace. 
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 2000a. “Cambodia Human Development 
Report: Children and Employment”. Phnom Penh. 
_____. 2000b. “Bosnia and Herzegovina 2000 Youth Human Development Report”. Sarajevo.
_____. 2000c. Global Human Development Report 2000: Human Rights and Human 
Development. New York.
_____. 2001. “Lithuania Human Development Report 2001: Opportunities for Youth and Human 
Development”. Vilnius.
_____. 2002. “Russian Federation Human Development Report 2001: Generational Aspects of 
Human Development”. Moscow. 
_____. 2004a. Croatia National Human Development Report: Youth. Zagreb. 
_____. 2004b. “Jordan Human Development Report 2004: Building Sustainable Livelihoods”. 
Amman.
_____. 2004c. “Panama Human Development Report 2004: La Voz de la Juventud”. 
UNESCO (United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization). 2002. “UNESCO 
Mainstreaming—The Needs of Youth”. Paris. 
_____. 2004. “UNESCO’s Contribution—Empowering Youth through National Policies”. Paris.
_____. 2005. “Education for All Global Monitoring Report 2005: The Quality Imperative.” Paris. 
_____. 2007.  “Education for All Global Monitoring Report 2007: Strong Foundations, Early 
Childhood Care and Education”. Paris.
UNFPA (United Nations Population Fund). 2003. “State of World Population 2003: Making One 
Billion Count—Investing in Adolescents’ Health and Rights”. 
_____. 2007. “State of World Population 2007: Unleashing the Potential of Urban Growth”.
United States Department of Education. 2001. “Progress in International Reading Literacy 

128
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT / TURKEY 2008
Study 2001”.
Van Oudenhoven, Nico, and Rekha Wazir. 1996. “Youth Policies and Programmes: Strategies for 
Internationalization and Dissemination”. Leiden: International Child Development Initiatives.
Wallace, C. and M. Cross. 1990. Youth in Transition: The Sociology of Youth and Youth Policy. 
London: Falmer Press. 
World Bank. 2005a. “Turkey Education Sector Study: Sustainable Pathways to an Effective, 
Equitable, and Efficient Education System for Preschool through Secondary School Education.” 
Human Development Sector Unit, Europe and Central Asia Region in association with Education 
Reform Initiative/ Istanbul Policy Center, December 31, 2005. 
_____. 2005b. “Turkey Poverty Policy Recommendations,” Vol. II. 
_____. 2006. Turkey Labour Market Study. Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit 
Europe and Central Asia Region. April 14, 2006. 
_____. 2007. “World Development Report: Development and the Next Generation.” 
Washington.
Yılmaz, H. 2006. “The Quality of Fiscal Adjustment in Turkey: The Case of Social Expenditures.” 
Presentation at the World Bank. Ankara. 
YÖK (Yükseköğretim Kurulu—Council of Higher Education). 2007. “Türkiye’nin Yüksek 
Öğretim Stratejisi” (“Turkey’s Tertiery Education Strategy”). Ankara. 




